#summary Possible ways to handle dwc:associatedWhatever terms

= Possible ways to handle dwc:associatedWhatever terms =

Steve Baskauf - 2014-11-15

The [DwcRdfGuideProposalRevised current version of the RDF Guide] places the terms [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/associatedMedia dwc:associatedMedia], [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/associatedOccurrences dwc:associatedOccurrences], [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/associatedSequences dwc:associatedSequences], [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/associatedTaxa dwc:associatedTaxa], and [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/associatedOrganisms dwc:associatedOrganisms] into the category "[#3.8_Darwin_Core_terms_whose_function_cannot_be_duplicated_by_a_d Darwin Core terms whose function cannot be duplicated by a dwciri: object property]". 

In an off-list email conversation that included Bob Morris, Paul Morris, and me, we discussed the reasons why these terms were placed in this category and why there we chose not to just create dwciri: versions of each of them.  It would certainly be possible to do that.  The object would be the IRI of a resource of the appropriate type, and the property could be repeated as necessary to include all of the resources concatenated in the dwc:associatedWhatever string value.  This would not capture all of the information potentially included in the string, since the term definitions for several of these terms specify that the nature of the association should be included in the string, e.g. "mother of MXA-231" for dwc:associatedOrganisms and "parasitoid of:Cyclocephala signaticollis" for dwc:associatedTaxa.

This does not feel right to me for the same reason that creating dwciri: analogs for all of the "ID" terms did not seem right.  In addition to implying an association between the subject and object, the dwc:associatedWhatever terms also imply the type of the object resource. There is no reason to overload an object property in that way, since there is a well-known method for specifying the type of a resource: assign it a rdf:type property. In liew of creating four dwciri: analogs of the existing dwc:associatedWhatever terms, one could simply create a single term (something like dwciri:associatedWith) that one would use as an object property replacement for any of the dwc:associatedWhatever terms along with a separate type declaration for the object resource.  This would still not solve the problem of not capturing the nature of the association, but then the dwciri:associatedMedia, dwciri:associatedTaxa, etc. solution wouldn't solve that problem either.  But it would allow a provider to indicate to a consumer that they could "follow their nose" to find related resources of various sorts.  It would also be possible for a provider to use additional properties outside of DwC, such as foaf:depiction, dcterms:hasPart, dcterms:isReferencedBy, dsw:hasEvidence, etc., to specify the nature and direction of the relationship more precisely.  