#summary Beginner's guide to RDF: Introduction

http://tdwg-rdf.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/file/tdwg-logo.png  [http://www.tdwg.org/ http://www.tdwg.org]

=Beginner's Guide to RDF=

*Date:* (Created) 17 February 2012; (Last modified) 24 March 2013

*Status:* Not part of any standard ([http://www.tdwg.org/standards/147/ Type 3] document)

*Permanent URL:* http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners

*TDWG Task Group:* [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/ TDWG RDF/OWL Task Group]

*Contributors:* [mailto:steve.baskauf@vanderbilt.edu?subject=RDFguide Steve Baskauf] (TDWG RDF/OWL Task Group)

*Abstract:* This document provides concise information about topics related to RDF and OWL in the context of the biodiversity informatics community.  It is intended as an introduction for persons who are not already familiar with RDF and OWL and as a reference for persons who are familiar but would like organized access to additional reference material.  

http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/3.0/88x31.png Licensed under [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/deed Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License]

*Table of Contents:*

[#Beginner%27s_guide_to_RDF:_0._Introduction 0. Introduction (this page)]

[Beginners1URIs 1. Resources and URIs]

[Beginners2WhatIsRDF 2. What is RDF and what is it for?]

[Beginners3RDFbasics 3. RDF basics]

[Beginners4Vocabularies 4. Vocabularies, DCAM, and RDFS]

[Beginners5RDFdata 5. Discovery, Transmission, and Storage of RDF data]

[Beginners6SPARQL 6. Querying with SPARQL]

[Beginners7OWL 7. Ontologies and OWL]
----

= Beginner's guide to RDF: 0. Introduction =

*Contents*

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

==0.1. Purpose==

The purpose of this guide is to provide concise information about topics related to RDF and OWL which are significant to the work of the [http://www.tdwg.org/ TDWG] RDF/OWL Task Group (RDF/OWL TG) in particular and to the biodiversity informatics community in general.  It is intended as an introduction for persons who are not already familiar with RDF and OWL and as a reference for persons who are familiar but would like organized access to additional reference material.  Although it is intended that the information provided be correct, because it is intended as an introduction the amount of technical jargon and formal language has been kept to a minimum.  For those who are interested in normative descriptions of the concepts and technologies discussed here, footnotes are provided to hyperlinks to more detailed information.

It should also be noted that in almost every instance, the URIs that are used in the examples are "real" URIs (no fake "example.org" URIs) from the wild which in most cases will actually dereference (at least in the case of HTTP URIs and LSIDs).  This is not to imply that there is something special about those URIs or that the examples that they provide are a model of any sort, but rather it is to give the reader an opportunity to actually try out the tools that have been provided for validating, describing, browsing, etc.

==0.2. Format==

The guide is laid out into sections, each of which deals with a major issue relevant to the work of the RDF/OWL TG.  This allows users who wish to access the guide as a reference to jump quickly to the point of interest.  However, the later sections presuppose knowledge of concepts discussed in earlier sections, so a beginner may have difficulty starting at a later section.  

Within each section, subsections are laid out hierarchically and linked in a Table of Contents at the top of the section page.  At the end of each section is a numbered reference list which is also linked to the Table of Contents as well as the actual references in the text.  

A beginner who wants to gain a basic understanding of RDF and OWL should start with section 1 and work through the guide sequentially.  However, it is not intended that this guide be a tutorial capable of enabling a beginner to write RDF or OWL.  Consulting additional references will undoubtedly be required.  



==0.3 Significant documents, tools, and RDF implementations==
The mention of any document or tool in this guide does not imply the endorsement of TDWG or the RDF/OWL TG.  (The exception to this is ratified [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/ TDWG standards] which are official recommendations of TDWG.)  The referenced items below are simply ones which have been found to be helpful.  The lists are not exhaustive; resources may be added when discovered or removed if they cease to be available.  

The document [http://www4.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/bizer/pub/linkeddatatutorial/ How to Publish Linked Data on the Web] is somewhat out of date, but provides a general overview of Linked Data issues.

See also a list of [http://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/ design issues] intended to avoid repetition of discussions once resolved.

The [http://pedantic-web.org/ Pedantic Web] group is concerned with the quality of RDF data and has created a list of [http://pedantic-web.org/fops.html Frequently Observed Problems on the Web of Data].

===0.3.1. Related to Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) and GUID/Persistent Identifier===
[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986 RFC 3986. Uniform Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax]  ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-1.2.2 section 1.2.2. defining "dereference", "resolution", and "representation"])

[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987 RFC 3987. Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/cooluris/ Cool URIs for the Semantic Web]

[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616 RFC 2616. Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1]  ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-1.3 section 1.3 Terminology including definition of "resource" and "representation"])  ([http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-12 section 12 on Content Negotiation])

[http://httpd.apache.org/docs/current/rewrite/ Apache mod_rewrite (URL rewriting)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/swbp-vocab-pub/ Best Practice Recipes for Publishing RDF Vocabularies] (content negotiation and URI dereferencing)

[http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ GUID Applicability Statement - Current TDWG Standard]  ([http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/guid-applicability-final-2011-01.pdf click here for PDF viewable via browser])

[http://www.gbif.org/orc/?doc_id=2428 A Beginner's Guide to Persistent Identifiers] published by the [http://www.gbif.org/ Global Biodiversity Information Facility(GBIF)]

[https://www.idigbio.org/content/idigbio-guid-statement Integrated Digital Biocollections (iDigBio) GUID Statement]

[http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ Life Sciences Identifiers Applicability Statement - Current TDWG Standard]   ([http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/LSID%20AS_2011_01_final.pdf click here for PDF viewable via browser])

[http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/opensource/library/os-lsidbp/ LSID Best Practices]

[http://www.omg.org/cgi-bin/doc?dtc/04-05-01.pdf LSID Specification]

[http://www.jbiomedsem.com/content/2/1/7 Jones et al. 2011. Identifying and relating biological concepts in the Catalogue of Life.] Journal of Biomedical Semantics 2011,2:7. doi:10.1186/2041-1480-2-7

[http://www.crossref.org/CrossTech/2011/04/content_negotiation_for_crossr.html DOIs as HTTP URIs]

To locate DOIs for _titles_ (books, monographs, or whole journal runs) in the [http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/ Biodiversity Heritage Library] (BHL), locate the title through searching, then access the URL 
{{{
http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/bibliography/[title_number]
}}}
or
{{{
http://www.biodiversitylibrary.org/title/[title_number]
}}}
where {{{[title_number]}}} is the BHL-assigned identifying number for the title.  Currently, BHL does not assign DOIs to individual articles unless they happen to correspond to a monograph.  

DOIs can be exported _en masse_ through BHLs data export at http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/Data+Exports and are exposed at the BHL API and OpenURL resolver http://biodivlib.wikispaces.com/Developer+Tools+and+API .

Thanks to Rod Page and Chris Freeland for this information.

===0.3.2. Related to the Resource Description Framework (RDF) model===
[http://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-rdf-primer-20040210/ RDF Primer (intended for beginners)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-concepts/ RDF Concepts and Abstract Syntax (normative description of namespace, datatypes, and abstract syntax)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-syntax-grammar/ RDF/XML Syntax Specification (normative)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-mt/ RDF Semantics (normative)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/ RDF Vocabulary Description Language 1.0: RDF Schema (RDFS)]

[http://web.resource.org/rss/1.0/ RSS specification (view source to see RDF)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-query/ SPARQL 1.1 Query Language] ([http://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-protocol/ communication protocol])

[https://journals.ku.edu/index.php/jbi/article/view/25 Page 2006 "Taxonomic names, metadata, and the Semantic Web" (modeling taxonomic metadata relationships in RDF)]

[https://docs.google.com/a/nescent.org/document/d/1XzdsjCfPylcyOoNtDfAgz15HwRdCD-0e0ixh21_U0y0/edit?hl=en_US W3C Interest Group note: Mapping and linking life science data using RDF] (Thanks to Hilmar Lapp for providing the link.) 

[http://www.w3.org/egov/wiki/Linked_Environment_Data Early draft of expressing Darwin Core taxonomies in SKOS] (Thomas Bandholtz)

[http://www.openannotation.org/spec/core/ Open Annotation Core Data Model] (for creating associations between distant pieces of information)

[http://www.w3.org/QA/2010/07/new_opportunities_for_linked_d.html Proposal for linking metadata to the web pages they describe]

===0.3.3. Related to the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI) Abstract Model===
[http://dublincore.org/documents/abstract-model/ DCMI Abstract Model (DCAM) specification]   ([http://dublincore.org/documents/abstract-model/#sect-5 Relationship between DCAM and RDFS])

[http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-rdf/#sect-4 Representing DCAM constructs using the RDF Model]

[http://dublincore.org/documents/2008/01/14/dc-rdf-notes/ Notes on DCMI specifications for Dublin Core metadata in RDF]

[http://dublincore.org/documents/domain-range/ Domains and Ranges for DCMI Properties]

[http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/guides/xml/index.htm#abstractmodel Darwin Core abstract model (vs. DCAM)]

===0.3.4. Related to Web Ontology Language (OWL)===
[http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-primer/ OWL 2 Web Ontology Language Primer (for beginners)]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-overview/ OWL 2 Web Ontology Language Document Overview]

[http://www.w3.org/TR/owl2-rdf-based-semantics/ OWL 2 Web Ontology Language RDF-Based Semantics]

[http://owl.cs.manchester.ac.uk/tutorials/protegeowltutorial/ A Practical Guide To Building OWL Ontologies Using Protégé 4 and CO-ODE Tools]

[http://www.amazon.com/Semantic-Web-Working-Ontologist-Second/dp/0123859654/ Allemang and Hendler Semantic Web for the Working Ontologist, Second Edition: Effective Modeling in RDFS and OWL (not available online)]

[http://sw.deri.org/~aidanh/docs/rw_2011.pdf Hogan et al. 2011 Scalable OWL 2 Reasoning for Linked Data] 

[http://sw.deri.org/~aidanh/ Link to Aidan Hogan's Ph.D. thesis "Exploiting RDFS and OWL for Integrating Heterogeneous, Large-Scale, Linked Data Corpora" and other OWL and RDF related links]

[http://www.ontobee.org/ Ontobee web server for Ontologies]  Can be set up with PURL redirection to dereference ontology terms.  See [http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-content/2012-May/002889.html this email] for further information.

===0.3.5. Software tools===
[http://www.dotnetrdf.org/content.asp?pageID=rdfEditor rdfEditor (syntax highlighting, validates and converts)]

[http://www.jedit.org/ jEdit (plugin for XML will validate, no RDF plugin)]

[http://protege.stanford.edu/ Protégé ontology editor] ([http://owl.cs.manchester.ac.uk/tutorials/protegeowltutorial/ guide])

[http://code.google.com/p/swoop/ SWOOP tool for creating, editing, and debugging OWL ontologies]

[http://clarkparsia.com/pellet Pellet OWL Reasoner] ([http://clarkparsia.com/pellet/tutorial Pellet tutorial])

See also http://www.w3.org/RDF/ for a listing of tools relevant to RDF

[http://mx.phenomix.org/index.php/Main_Page mx] - a Ruby-based platform that consists of a Ruby on Rails application and various supporting gems/libraries developed as a collaborative web-based content management system for biodiversity informatics.

===0.3.6. Web interfaces===
[http://validator.linkeddata.org/vapour Vapour Linked Data Validator for examining the dereferencing process for a URI]

[http://linkeddata.informatik.hu-berlin.de/uridbg/ URI Debugger to dereference URIs and visualize the HTTP response of the server]

[http://darwin.zoology.gla.ac.uk/~rpage/lsid/tester/ Rod Page's LSID tester]

[http://lsid.tdwg.org/ TDWG LSID resolver]

[http://bioguid.info/lsid.php Rod Page's LSID resolver]

[http://bioguid.info/openurl/ Rod Page's OpenURL Resolver which can be used to proxy some identifiers as HTTP URIs which return RDF]  Paper: [http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2105/10/S14/S5 "bioGUID: resolving, discovering, and minting identifiers for biodiversity informatics" doi:10.1186/1471-2105-10-S14-S5]

[http://www.w3.org/RDF/Validator/ W3C RDF Validation Service (includes graphical display)]

[http://www.rdfabout.com/demo/validator/ rdfabout.com RDF Validator and Converter (converts from XML to N3 and vice versa)]

[http://www.validome.org/rss-atom/ RSS validator (also XML validation)]

[http://owl.cs.manchester.ac.uk/validator/ Manchester OWL Validator]

[http://www.mygrid.org.uk/OWL/Validator WonderWeb OWL Ontology Validator]

[http://www.mindswap.org/2003/pellet/demo.shtml Mindswap OWL Consistency Checker]

[http://bioguid.info/status/ Rod Page's "Status of Biodiversity Services" checker (takes a long time to run so be patient)]

[http://www5.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/marbles Marbles Linked Data browser]

[http://linkeddata.uriburner.com/ode/ OpenLink Data Explorer Linked Data Browser]

[http://dataviewer.zitgist.com/ Zitgist Linked Data viewer]

[http://www4.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/rdf_browser/ Disco Hyperdata Browser]

[http://sig.ma/search Semantic Information Mashup (sig.ma) using Sindice's semantic web index]

[http://uriburner.com/sparql URIBurner test basic SPARQL endpoint]

[http://uriburner.com/isparql URIBurner enhanced SPARQL endpoint]

===0.3.7. Biodiversity-related and General vocabularies and ontologies===
[http://terms.gbif.org/wiki/Audubon_Core Audubon Core (AC) draft TDWG standard] ([http://terms.gbif.org/wiki/Audubon_Core_Term_List_%281.0_normative%29 draft term list])

Australian Plant Name Index (APNI) vocabulary ([http://www.biodiversity.org.au/voc/apni/APNI.rdf in RDF])

[http://bibotools.googlecode.com/svn/bibo-ontology/trunk/doc/index.html Bibliographic Ontology Specification (BIBO)] ([http://code.google.com/p/bibotools/source/browse/bibo-ontology/tags/1.0/bibo.n3 in RDF/N3])

[http://www.w3.org/TR/Content-in-RDF10/ Content-in-RDF10 (Representing Content in RDF 1.0 vocabulary)]

[http://www.tdwg.org/standards/450/ Darwin Core (DwC) TDWG Standard] ([http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/ homepage]) ([http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/index.htm term quick reference guide]) ([http://code.google.com/p/darwincore/source/browse/trunk/rdf/dwcterms.rdf term definitions in RDF]) ([http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/type-vocabulary/index.htm type vocabulary]) ([http://code.google.com/p/darwincore/source/browse/trunk/rdf/dwctype.rdf type definitions in RDF])

[http://code.google.com/p/darwin-sw/ darwin-sw (DSW) ontology] ([http://code.google.com/p/darwin-sw/source/browse/trunk/dsw.owl in RDF])

[http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/ Dublin Core (DC) terms] ([http://dublincore.org/2010/10/11/dcterms.rdf in RDF]) ([http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-type-vocabulary/#H7 type vocabulary])  ([http://dublincore.org/2010/10/11/dctype.rdf in RDF])

[http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/ FOAF Vocabulary Specification 0.98] ([http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/index.rdf in RDF])

[http://www.w3.org/2003/01/geo/ Basic Geo WGS84 lat/long (GEO) Vocabulary] ([http://www.w3.org/2003/01/geo/wgs84_pos in RDF])

[http://id.loc.gov/ Library of Congress Authorities and Vocabularies: ISO639 languages, MARC countries and geographic areas] (Use view page source: [http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/iso639-1.rdf ISO639], [http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/geographicAreas.rdf MARC geographic areas], etc. in RDF)

[http://test.ckan.org/lv/dataset/linked-open-data-of-ecology Linked Open Data of Ecology (LODE) vocabulary] ([http://ecoinformatics.tfri.gov.tw/ternwork/member Ecoinformatics Working Group of the TFRI])

[http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/relators.html MARC (Library of Congress) Relators list (terms are subPropertyOf dc:contributor and possibly other dc:terms)]  see also [http://dublincore.org/usage/documents/relators/ MARC Relator terms and Dublin Core]

[http://www.tdwg.org/standards/312/ Natural Collections Descriptions (NCD) draft TDWG Standard] ([http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/NCD-v090_TDWG-NonNormative.pdf PDF non-normative document viewable in browser]) ([http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/NCD-v090_TDWG-Normative.pdf PDF normative document viewable in browser]) ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/Collection.rdf Collection in RDF])  ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/Institution.rdf Institution in RDF]) ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/InstitutionType.rdf InstitutionType in RDF]) ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/ContactDetails.rdf ContactDetails in RDF])

[http://www.openannotation.org/spec/core/ Open Annotation Core Data Model]

OBO foundry (http://www.obofoundry.org/ ) ontologies:

  * Basic Formal Ontology (BFO) http://www.ifomis.org/bfo .  Includes definition of "process" and "material entity".

  * Biological Collections Ontology (BCO) ([http://bioportal.bioontology.org/ontologies/49826?p=terms browse draft here]) ([http://biocode-commons.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ontologies/biocollections/biocode.owl view draft OWL as RDF]).  Includes definition of "material sample", "sampling process", and "observing process".  

  * Common Anatomy Reference Ontology (CARO) ([http://bioportal.bioontology.org/ontologies/46615?p=terms browse here] or [http://www.ontobee.org/browser/rdf.php?o=CARO&iri=http://purl.obolibrary.org/obo/CARO_0000012 here])  ([http://www.berkeleybop.org/ontologies/owl/CARO OWL as RDF]).  Includes definition of "multicellular organism" and "organism".  

  * Environment Ontology (EnvO) http://www.environmentontology.org/ .  Includes definition of "biome" and "environmental feature".

  * Gene Ontology (GO) http://www.geneontology.org/ . ([http://amigo.geneontology.org/cgi-bin/amigo/browse.cgi browse]).  Includes definition of "biological process".

  * Information Artifact Ontology (IAO) http://code.google.com/p/information-artifact-ontology/ . Includes definition of "information content entity" and "data item".

  * Ontology for Biomedical Investigations (OBI) http://obi-ontology.org/ ([http://obi.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/obi/releases/2012-07-01/merged/merged-obi-comments.owl OWL as RDF]).  Includes definition of "planned process".

  * Plant Ontology (PO) http://www.plantontology.org/  ([http://owlfiles.plantontology.org/ OWL as RDF])

  * Population and Community Ontology (PCO) http://code.google.com/p/popcomm-ontology/ (http://code.google.com/p/popcomm-ontology/source/browse/trunk/pco.owl view OWL as RDF]).  Includes definition of "species", "population", "species", and "community".

[http://www.idealliance.org/specifications/prism/ Publishing Requirements for Industry Standard Metadata (PRISM)] (RDF???)

[http://www.w3.org/2009/08/skos-reference/skos.html SKOS Simple Knowledge Organization System Namespace Document] ([http://www.w3.org/2009/08/skos-reference/skos.rdf in RDF])

[http://www.tdwg.org/standards/117/ Taxonomic Concept Transfer Schema (TCS) (TDWG Standard)] [http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/TCS-Schema-UserGuide-v1.3.pdf (Users Guide PDF viewable in browser)] [http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/xmlspy_documentation_01.pdf (XML schema details PDF viewable in browser)] ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/TaxonConcept.rdf TaxonConcept in RDF])  ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/TaxonName.rdf TaxonName in RDF])  ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/Common.rdf Common in RDF])  [http://www.jbiomedsem.com/content/2/1/7 Journal of Biomedical Semantics 2:7 article on application of LSIDs and TCS at Catalogue of Life]

[http://www.taxonconcept.org/ontologies/ TaxonConcept Ontologies] ([http://lod.taxonconcept.org/ontology/txn.owl in RDF])

[http://wiki.tdwg.org/twiki/bin/view/TAG/TDWGOntology TDWG Ontology (human readable)]  ([http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/ in RDF])

[http://www.w3.org/Submission/vcard-rdf/ vCard] ([http://www.w3.org/2006/vcard/ns in RDF])

[http://www.w3.org/TR/void/ VoID vocabulary] ([http://vocab.deri.ie/void see also])


===0.3.8. Biodiversity-related RDF in the wild===
[http://www.biodiversity.org.au/confluence/display/bdv/NSL%2bServices Atlas of Living Australia (ALA) National Species List (NSL) Linked Data Services; uses DC, TCS, APNI] ([http://biodiversity.org.au/apni.taxon/118883.rdf example resource])

[http://www.biodiversitycollectionsindex.org/static/index.html Biodiversity Collections Index; uses DC, vCard, and NCD] ([http://www.biodiversitycollectionsindex.org/collection/rdf/id/12599 example resource])

[http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/ Bioimages; uses DC, DwC, TCS, FOAF, AC, DSW, and others] ([http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/baskauf/10531.rdf example resource]) ([http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/vanderbilt/7-16.rdf example resource])

[http://www.crossref.org/CrossTech/2011/04/content_negotiation_for_crossr.html DOIs dereferenced as RDF; uses DC, BIBO, PRISM] ([http://www5.wiwiss.fu-berlin.de/marbles?uri=http%3A%2F%2Fdx.doi.org%2F10.1525%2Fauk.2009.09022 example resource] URI is {{{http://dx.doi.org/10.1525/auk.2009.09022}}} but RDF can't be viewed in a browser directly)

[http://ecowlim.tfri.gov.tw/lode/ Linked Open Data of Ecology; uses DwC, FOAF, GEO, LODE] ([http://test.ckan.org/lv/dataset/linked-open-data-of-ecology/resource/b27bdda0-5f10-4419-9da2-69e513152582 example resource]) 

[http://www.taxonconcept.org/ TaxonConcept; uses DC, FOAF, BIBO, TaxonConcept, SKOS, and others] ([http://lod.taxonconcept.org/ses/dwAmr.rdf example resource])

[http://www.ubio.org/ uBio; uses DC and locally defined predicates] ([http://www.ubio.org/authority/metadata.php?lsid=urn:lsid:ubio.org:namebank:463007 example resource])

-------------------
Questions? Comments? Contact [mailto:steve.baskauf@vanderbilt.edu?subject=RDFguide Steve Baskauf]