#summary Proposed revisions to the RDF Guide based on class proposal.

====2.3.1.5 Classes to be used for type declarations of resources described using Darwin Core====

The TDWG GUID Applicability Statement standard [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ GUID-STANDARD] specifies that an object in the biodiversity domain that is identified by a GUID should be typed using a well-known vocabulary. With this recommendation in mind, it should be considered a best practice to provide information about the type (i.e. class membership) of any resource that is assigned a persistent identifier in the form of a URI.  Since Darwin Core is a well-known vocabulary and a ratified TDWG standard, its classes should be used for typing in preference to classes in parts of the TDWG ontology which are not ratified standards.  An exception to this is the Darwin Core Taxon class whose meaning is too vague.  As of the writing of this guide, there is no class name defined in any standard for taxon concepts and taxon names as they are described in the TDWG Taxon Concept Transfer Schema (TCS) Standard.  This guide does not specify what specific kinds of resources should be included within particular Darwin Core classes since that is a matter for community consensus ([#1.4.4_Limitations_of_this_guide Section 1.4.4])

Darwin Core defines two categories of classes.  Classes defined within the general Darwin Core terms namespace (_dwc:_={{{http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/}}}) serve to categorize the Darwin Core terms that are properties.  Classes defined within the Darwin Core Type Vocabulary namespace (_dwctype:_={{{http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/dwctype/}}}) are intended to categorize Darwin Core resources.  In cases where there are parallel classes in the term vocabulary and the type vocabulary (_dwc:Occurrence_/_dwctype:Occurrence_ and _dwc:Event_/_dcmitype:Event_), the class in the type vocabulary should be used as the object of _rdf:type_ declarations of resources described using Darwin Core.    

The following list summarizes the classes included in Darwin Core that should be used for typing biodiversity-related resources:

<dl><dt>_dwctype:Occurrence_</dt><dt>_dcmitype:Event_</dt><dt>_dcterms:Location_ (add to DwC type vocabulary, deprecate _dwctype:Location_)</dt><dt>propose _dwctype:GeologicalContext_</dt><dt>propose _dwctype:Identification_</dt><dt>_dwctype:PreservedSpecimen_</dt><dt>_dwctype:FossilSpecimen_</dt><dt>_dwctype:LivingSpecimen_</dt><dt>_dwctype:HumanObservation_</dt><dt>_dwctype:MachineObservation_</dt><dt>_dwctype:NomenclaturalChecklist_</dt><dt>_dwctype:MaterialSample_</dt></dl>

The following list summarizes classes included in the Dublin Core type vocabulary (but which are not part of Darwin Core) that should be used for typing biodiversity-related resources:

<dl><dt>_dcmitype:StillImage_</dt><dt>_dcmitype:MovingImage_</dt><dt>_dcmitype:Sound_</dt><dt>_dcmitype:PhysicalObject_</dt></dl>
