#summary Draft of proposed Darwin Core RDF Guide

= Darwin Core RDF Guide =

* This is a draft submission under the [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/namespace/index.htm Darwin Core Namespace Policy].  To view comments made by the RDF Task Group, view [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OLyVFuveGX1a0Yt6Niok9FfGxkrghii-xlGYhwO8UqE/edit?usp=sharing this Google document].*  This document is still being wikified as of 2013-09-09.

*Title:* Darwin Core RDF Guide

*Date issued:* x

*Date modified:* x

*Abstract:* This guide is intended to facilitate the use of Darwin Core terms in the Resource Description Framework (RDF). It explains basic features of RDF and provides details of how to expose data in the form of RDF using Darwin Core terms and terms from other key vocabularies.  It defines terms in the namespace http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/uri/ which are intended for use excusively with non-literal objects.  

*Contributors:* Steve Baskauf (TDWG RDF/OWL Task Group), John Wieczorek (TDWG Darwin Core Task Group), John Deck (Genomic Biodiversity Working Group), Campbell Webb (TDWG RDF/OWL Task Group), Mark Schildhauer (National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis)

*Legal:* This document is governed by the standard legal, copyright, licensing provisions and disclaimers issued by the Taxonomic Databases Working Group.   Licensed under a [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/deed Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License] [http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/deed http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/3.0/88x31.png]

*Part of TDWG Standard:* http://www.tdwg.org/standards/450/

*Creator:* Darwin Core and RDF/OWL Task Groups

*Identifier:* http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/guides/rdf/ (eventually)

*Document Status:* Current Standard ([http://www.tdwg.org/standards/147/ Type 2] non-normative document)

*Table of Contents:*

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

=1 Introduction=

Each method of encoding information using Darwin Core has a guide explaining how to use the Darwin Core terms in that situation.  This is the guide for encoding biodiversity data using the Resource Description Framework (RDF) [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-concepts/ RDF].  

==1.1 Audience==

The Darwin Core RDF Guide is targeted toward those who wish to share biodiversity metadatadata described by Darwin Core (DwC) properties using RDF.  It describes how community best practices for expressing fundamental information about resources using RDF relates to Darwin Core terms, and clarifies how Darwin Core terms should be used in RDF with literal (string) and non-literal (URI reference) objects.  It is not intended to explain the model and syntax of RDF.  For a general introduction to RDF in a biodiversity context, see the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners BEGINNERS-GUIDE].  For a more detailed introduction to RDF, see the [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-primer/ RDF-PRIMER].  

==1.2 Rationale==

Darwin Core is a vocabulary which provides terms that can be used to describe the properties and types of entities (known in RDF as "resources") in the biodiversity realm.  Darwin Core is a general purpose vocabulary because its terms can be used as part of a number of data transfer systems.  RDF differs in several important ways from other data transfer systems for which DwC usage guides exist ([rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/guides/text/ text files] and [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/guides/xml/ XML]).  By its nature, RDF is a distributed system.  It is assumed that data from one provider will be linked to data from other providers.  This also implies that it is always possible to discover new data properties about a particular resource and that those properties may be described using unfamiliar terms.  This differs significantly from other data transfer systems where there must be a pre-existing agreement (in the form of a federation schema or human-understandable document) between the sender and receiver about the format of the data and the organization and interpretation of the terms within records.  Because RDF is intended to facilitate data and metadata discovery by machines (actually computer programs known as semantic clients or just "clients"), the meaning and use of terms must be well-defined and discoverable by clients without human intervention.  To facilitate cross-referencing of resources among different data providers, resources must be identified using standardized, machine-understandable, and globally unique identifiers known as universal resource identifiers (URIs).  Finally, because anyone can make statements about a resource without agreeing to a pre-determined schema, RDF by its nature is a highly normalized network of relationships, in contrast to typical database tables which are by their nature "flat".  Because of these differences, effective use of RDF requires that its users adhere to what are essentially evolving social conventions about identifiers, data transfer protocols, and application of vocabularies.  Some of these conventions will be described in the following sections.

==1.3 Features of RDF==

This section describes some of the basic features of RDF.  It is not intended as a tutorial on RDF, but rather to provide enough information about the features of RDF to explain why specific guidelines for the use Darwin Core in RDF are necessary and why an additional Darwin Core namespace has been created.

===1.3.1 Serialization and syntax===

The RDF model itself is independent of any specific serialization syntax.  The following diagram represents a set of facts about an image in a graphical form easily understood by humans.

Each arrow represents a statement about the image, called a "triple" in RDF.  The set of triples is called an RDF graph.  Resources (represented by ovals) are identified by URIs.  The described resource (in this example the image http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/kirchoff/ac1490 at the tail of the arrow) is called the subject of the triple.  Properties of the subject resource are identified by term URIs shown here with their namespaces abbreviated (e.g. dcterms: = "http://purl.org/dc/terms/").  The property is called the predicate of the triple.  The values of the properties are called the object of the statement, with literal values (consisting of text) represented by rectangles.

This RDF graph can be serialized in a somewhat human-friendly syntax called Terse RDF Triple Language (Turtle) [http://www.w3.org/TR/turtle/ TURTLE]:
{{{
@prefix rdf: <http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#>.
@prefix dcterms: <http://purl.org/dc/terms/>.
<http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/kirchoff/ac1490>
       a <http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/StillImage>;
       dcterms:created "2010-09-01T03:41:31";
       dcterms:creator <http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/contact/kirchoff#coblea>.
}}}
Here is the graph in RDF/XML syntax [http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-rdf-syntax/ RDF-XML-SYNTAX]:
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
xmlns:dcterms="http://purl.org/dc/terms/"
>
 <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/kirchoff/ac1490">
   <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/StillImage"/>
    <dcterms:creator rdf:resource="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/contact/kirchoff#coblea"/>
   <dcterms:created>2010-09-01T03:41:31</dcterms:created>
 </rdf:Description>
</rdf:RDF>
}}}
In this document, the following formatting conventions will be used.  Full URIs will be shown in Courier type and enclosed in angle brackets, e.g.

<http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/contact/kirchoff#coblea> 

Abbreviated URIs will be shown in italics in the form namespace:localName, e.g. rdf:type.  Namespace abbreviations when shown by themselves will also be shown in italics, e.g. dwc: .  Examples will be displayed in Courier type.  

The W3C specification recommends XML for exchange of information among applications because it is the most widely understood form of serialization [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-concepts/#section-xml-serialization RDF-XML-SERIALIZATION].  Therefore, all examples given here will be shown as RDF/XML.  In some cases, they will also be shown in Turtle.
For more detailed information about RDF serialization, see part 3 of the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners3RDFbasics Beginner's Guide to RDF] and the references cited there.

===1.3.2 Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)===

Data providers make use of a variety of identifiers to refer to resources they wish to provide.  These identifiers may be locally unique within the provider's database, or they may be globally unique.  Providers have sought to make their identifiers globally unique through such means as "Darwin Core Triplets" (institutionCode:collectionCode:catalogNumber) and creation of UUIDs [http://www.iso.org/iso/home/store/catalogue_ics/catalogue_detail_ics.htm?csnumber=53416  UUID].  However, only identifiers in the form of URIs [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986 URI] can be valid subjects of statements (known as RDF triples) in RDF, so neither “Darwin Core Triples” nor UUIDs can be used in unmodified form for that purpose.  URIs are a subset of a broader form of identifiers known as Internationalized Resource Identifiers (IRIs) which can usually be used in place of URIs [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987 IRI].  This document will refer exclusively to URIs with the understanding that IRIs may usually be used in place of URIs.

The most familiar form of URI is a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) which not only identifies a resource, but provides information about retrieving an information resource (i.e. a resource that can be transmitted in electronic form) such as text in the form of an HTML web page.  However, in general URIs may identify non-information resources (physical or conceptual entities) that are not transmittable electronically, e.g. http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/contact/kirchoff#coblea, a person.  If a client attempts to retrieve a non-information resource by dereferencing its HTTP URI, a process called http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616#section-12 content negotiation] is used to refer the client to the URI of an information resource representation of the non-information resource.  For humans, this is usually a web page, while for semantic clients (machines) the representation is a document in the form of RDF/XML.  
 
For more detailed information about URIs see part 1 of the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners1URIs Beginner's Guide to RDF] and the references cited there.

====1.3.2.1 Persistent Identifiers====

Best practices dictate that identifiers (known as persistent identifiers or globally unique identifiers: GUIDs) which are used to identify resources of permanent interest be globally unique, referentially consistent, and persistent [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ GUID-STANDARD].  If those identifiers are to be used to identify subject resources in RDF, they must also be in the form of a URI.  This has two implications for data providers.

First, if a non-URI globally unique identifier is used to identify a subject resource, it must be converted to a URI by making it conform to a well-known URI scheme (e.g. a URN or HTTP URI) [http://www.iana.org/assignments/uri-schemes.html URI-SCHEMES].  For example, a UUID can be transformed into a URN [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4122 UUID-URN-NAMESPACE] by prefixing its string representation with "urn:uuid:" as in
{{{
<urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6>
}}}
Similarly, ISBNs can be converted to URNs [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3187 ISBN-AS-URN] as shown in Examples 13 and 14.  Although these URNs are valid URIs, they have the disadvantage that they are not actionable (see the following section).  In contrast, the "Darwin Core triplet"
{{{
MVZ:Mamm:165861
}}}
has been turned into an actionable URI by appending it to the base string "http://arctos.database.museum/guid/":
{{{
<http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:165861>
}}}
Second, if a provider refers to a resource using an HTTP URL that provides data about the resource, the provider should take care to ensure that the URL does not change over time (e.g. if the content moves to a different server, if the directory structure changes, or if a new version of the database is introduced).  It may be preferable to use content negotiation [http://www.w3.org/TR/cooluris/ CONTENT-NEGOTIATION] to redirect the user from a persistent URI immutable URI which refers to the resource, to the URL of a web page which describes the resource.

For a more detailed introduction to persistent identifiers, see the [http://www.gbif.org/orc/?doc_id=2428 GBIF Beginner's Guide to Persistent Identifiers].

Based on the precedent set by the TDWG LSID Applicability Statement standard [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ LSID-STANDARD], it is recommended that URN-based URIs be related to HTTP-proxied equivalents (if they exist) as described in section 2.2.3 .

====1.3.2.2 HTTP URIs as self-resolving GUIDs====

Advocates of principles of Linked Data [http://linkeddata.org/ LINKED-DATA] prefer to use identifiers which follow the HTTP URI scheme [http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2616 HTTP], known as "HTTP URIs".  In addition to being globally unique, such identifiers have the advantage of being dereferenceable using a widely implemented protocol .  As such, it is possible to implement HTTP URIs so that a human end user can obtain information about the resource using a conventional web browser.  It is also possible to implement HTTP URIs so that data (in the form of RDF) describing the resource can be discovered by a semantic client.  In recognition of the advantages conferred by HTTP URIs, the TDWG GUID Applicability Statement standard [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ GUID-STANDARD] specifies in Recommendation 2 that "HTTP GET resolution must be provided for non-self-resolving GUIDs".  For this reason, providers of biodiversity information who intend to make data available through RDF should plan to implement GUIDs that are persistent HTTP URIs.  This is not to the exclusion of other forms of non-self-resolving globally unique identifiers which can be associated with the HTTP URI using the methods described in Section 2 of this guide.

==1.4 Use of terms in RDF==

===1.4.1 Well-known vocabularies===

Because RDF assumes no pre-existing agreement between data providers and consumers about the terms used as properties to describe resources, the likelihood that a consuming client will "understand" the meaning of an RDF triple will be increased if the provider uses terms from a well-known vocabulary.  Some well-known general and biodiversity-related vocabularies are listed in the Introduction to the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners#0.3.7._Biodiversity-related_and_General_vocabularies_and_ontolog Beginner's Guide to RDF].  If no well-known term exists to represent a property needed to describe a resource, a data provider may "mint" its own term.  In that case, the provider should assign the term a URI, define the term in RDF, provide clear human-understandable documentation of how the term should be used, provide for dereferencing of the URI, and commit to the long-term stability of the term URI and definition.

===1.4.2 Appropriate use of terms===

Because of the machine-oriented nature of RDF, a provider must assume that a consuming client will not infer any meaning from a statement other than what is directly stated or what can be inferred logically from other statements made about the resources and terms involved in the statement.  For example, a provider might use the name of a resource in a triple with the intention that the name represent the resource itself.  However, if the term used as the predicate in the triple is designed to refer to resources themselves rather than names of resources, the client may fail to make the connection between the name and the resource itself.  Depending on how the term is defined, the client may detect an inconsistency or draw unintended conclusions as described below.
Inappropriate use of terms as RDF predicates can have unintended consequences because unlike text-based data transfer protocols, RDF is designed to allow clients to infer additional facts based on information contained in the definitions of the terms.  For example, the definition of the term foaf:depicts [http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/ FOAF] contains a statement declaring its domain to be foaf:Image .  Thus a provider which describes a resource using a foaf:depicts property is also implicitly (and perhaps unknowingly) declaring the resource to be an image.  Terms which are defined using a form of RDF known as Web Ontology Language (OWL) [http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-features/ OWL] may have restrictions placed on their use.  For example, the TDWG Taxon Concept Ontology declares the term tc:accordingTo to be an owl:ObjectProperty indicating that the value of that property cannot be a string literal (i.e. should be referred to by a URI).  Assigning tc:accordingTo a value which is a string will cause a client which has reasoning capabilities to detect an inconsistency.

For these reasons, terms should be used as predicates in RDF only after the data provider has carefully examined the documentation and usage guidelines associated with the vocabulary or ontology which defines the term and has determined that use of that term is consistent with the meaning which the provider intends to impart to the triple in which the term is to be used as a predicate.

For more detailed information about the implications of using terms which have range, domain, and subproperty declarations in RDF, see part 4 of the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners4Vocabularies Beginner's Guide to RDF].  For more detailed information about how OWL is used to define complex properties of terms in RDF, see part 7 of the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/Beginners7OWL Beginner's Guide to RDF].

===1.4.3 Use of Darwin Core terms in RDF===

The general Darwin Core vocabulary, whose terms are in the dwc: namespace (http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/ ), is designed primarily to facilitate the transfer of text-based records from relatively "flat" database tables.  Because of this, the term recommendations associated with the general vocabulary suggest using text strings to refer to physical and conceptual entities, i.e. names to represent people, citations to represent articles, codes to represent institutions, etc.  (The several kinds of roles intended for text strings are detailed in the following section.)  When a record has multiple values for a property, the general Darwin Core term definitions recommend that the multiple strings be concatenated and delineated in a single field to avoid forcing the creation of a more normalized data structure.

However, in RDF, identification of physical and conceptual entities is generally accomplished by URI references rather than literals.  If there are multiple values for a property, each value should be referenced in a separate triple.  Thus we face a situation where it is desirable in the context of RDF for certain DwC properties to be represented by one to many triples having non-literal (URI reference) objects, while the actual definitions of the terms in the general DwC vocabulary which represent those properties specify that a single literal (text string) object be provided.

In a perfect world, all data providers wishing to serve RDF would immediately replace literal references to physical and conceptual resources (names, citations, codes, etc.) with URI GUIDs that identify those resources and which are reused by other members of the community.  However, it is more realistic to assume that at least initially many providers will have few (if any) GUIDs available to use as URI references, so requiring non-literal resources to be referenced exclusively by URIs would impede the exposure of data in the form of RDF.  Therefore, it would be advantageous to provide an alternative set of DwC terms intended for use in RDF with URI-referenced objects, while continuing to use the general DwC terms for literal objects where providers are unable to convert their existing (string) database fields to URI references.  This strategy is similar to that which is implemented in the [http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/TaxonConcept.rdf TDWG TaxonConcept Ontology] which provides pairs of conceptually identical terms, one of which is intended to be used with literal values (e.g. tc:accordingToString), and the other which is intended to be used with URI references (e.g. tc:accordingTo).  

This guide introduces the namespace dwcuri: (http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/uri/) whose terms are intended for use with non-literal objects. If a term in the dwcuri: namespace has an analogue in the dwc: namespace having the same local name, the dwcuri: term will have the same meaning as its dwc: counterpart.  For example, dwcuri:recordedBy has the same meaning as dwc:recordedBy, but as an RDF predicate dwcuri:recordedBy is intended to be repeatable and have a URI-reference object.  Providers whose databases include the field dwc:recordedBy with records containing concatenated lists of names can publish those values immediately as single RDF triples using dwc:recordedBy as the predicate and containing one literal object which is the concatenated list string.  In this manner, publication of data as RDF can begin immediately using the dwc: terms without the requirement that every resource have an assigned URI GUID.  As the community develops mechanisms for discovering and reusing URIs, data providers can make the shift to dwcuri: terms.  As a part of their data updating and cleaning process providers or aggregators may eventually parse the strings, search a community URI repository, and match strings with existing URIs or create new ones if they do not already exist.

===1.4.4 Limitations of this guide===
 
This guide provides general guidance about how Darwin Core property terms should be used as RDF predicates and specifies which Darwin Core class terms should be used in rdf:type declarations (section 2.3.1.5).  However, the Darwin Core standard does not specify precisely which resources should be included as instances of its classes nor does it declare domains for its property terms.  It leaves specific decisions about type declaration and property assignment to community consensus.  Therefore it is outside of the scope of this guide to advise RDF users about what particular kinds of resources should be considered instances of less well-defined Darwin Core classes such as dwctype:Occurrence and dwctype:Event.

==1.5 Roles of text strings as values of properties in dwc: namespace==

When humans communicate in written language, they use strings of text characters to impart meaning.  In some cases text strings may have a relatively unambiguous meaning.  However, in many cases the exact meaning of a text string will depend on the context in which it is used.  Take for example the text string “Germany”.  That string may be intended to refer to a location bounded by some agreed-upon geographical borders.  It may be intended to refer to a political entity, i.e. “the government of Germany”.  It may be intended to refer to an entity that includes all of the inhabitants living with certain geographical borders.  It may also be intended to be a name recorded in a certain language.  Is “Germany” the same as “Deutschland”?  Does “Germany” mean the same thing as the code “DE”?  Is “Germany” the same as “Federal Republic of Germany”?  The answers to all of these questions depends on what one means by “Germany”.

In text-based data transfer systems, text strings are the predominant means by which information is conveyed.  It would be a relatively simple matter to simply “translate” existing Darwin Core text-based data into RDF by making every string value be the literal object of a predicate that is the Darwin Core property.  But that would not result in RDF that conveys the kind of “meaning” that RDF was designed to impart.  

Because text-based systems depend on predetermined understandings about the meanings of data fields, users are not forced to consider carefully the role that the string values are intended to play.  However, in RDF one cannot assume that a client will “know what I mean” when a string is provided.  For that reason, it is worth examining the kinds of meanings that we intend when we provide string values for Darwin Core properties in the dwc: namespace.  

===1.5.1 Situations where a string is the standard means for encoding a resource===

Numbers, dates, and titles are resources which are essentially conceptual, but whose meaning can be imparted rather completely and concisely by a string.  This is particularly true if an datatype encoding scheme is specified for the string or if a language attribute is used to indicate the language of the title.  In this situation, there is virtually no need to provide additional information about the resource other than the string itself.  A literal object is sufficient in itself.  

===1.5.2 Situations where a string value serves as a proxy for a non-information resource===

Humans commonly use name strings to represent resources that are physical or conceptual (i.e. non-information) resources.  For example, the string “Vincent van Gogh” is used to represent the person whose name was Vincent van Gogh.  If we made the statement “Starry Night” createdBy “Vincent van Gogh”, we do not mean that “Starry Night” was created by the name “Vincent van Gogh”, but rather that “Starry Night” was created by the person whose name was Vincent van Gogh.  For that matter “Starry Night” is the name for a painting and we probably actually mean that the person Vincent van Gogh created the painting rather than the name of the painting (although he probably created both!).  Unlike the first situation, such name strings themselves do not contain nearly all of the information that one might want to know about that non-information resource (e.g. date of creation, location at during a certain period of time, etc.) but they can serve as an identifier for the resource.  In RDF, machine-processable URIs are preferred over string names as identifiers for resources.

===1.5.3 Situations where a string value serves as a keyword to enable searching===

Imagine that a person identifies an oak tree as “Quercus alba”.  The data associated with that identification may provide the property/value pair dwc:scientificName=”Quercus alba”.  This implies that the person asserted that the tree was a representative of a taxon associated with the name Quercus alba.  The data associated with the identification may also provide the property/value pair dwc:order=”Fagales”.  One might think that this would imply that the person who asserted the identification also asserted that the tree was included in the order Fagales.  However, it is likely that the person did not make such an assertion and in fact may have never even heard of the order Fagales.  Rather, a database manager subscribing to a particular taxonomic hierarchy asserted that all identifications with a dwc:scientificName value of “Quercus alba” should also have a property/value pair of dwc:order=”Fagales” in order to allow users of the database to search for identifications that were related because they shared the common value for that dwc:order property.  

The point is that in order to more accurately describe the real situation, there should be two separate sets of information: one which asserts that the person identified the tree as a representative of a taxon for which the scientific name “Quercus alba” is applied, and one which asserts the relationship between that taxa and higher taxa such as one to which the name “Fagales” is applied.  

===1.5.4 Situations where a string value serves as an identifier===

A number of Darwin Core properties specify that their values should be an identifier.  There is significant ambiguity in the use of these properties because depending on the situation the value may be an identifier for the subject resource itself or it may be the identifier for a resource that is related in some way to the subject resource.  In addition, Darwin Core sometimes recommends (but does not require) a GUID as a value, but does not require that the GUID be either an HTTP URI nor a URI in general.

===1.5.5 Implications for expressing Darwin Core string values as RDF===

To facilitate achieving the clarity that RDF makes possible, this guide provides different approaches for each of these four situations in which string values are provided.  In the first three situations, the existing term from Darwin Core namespace dwc: can be used with a literal value to expose the string value as it currently exists in a text-based database.  This allows for the rapid deployment of RDF described in section 1.4.3 and is all that is required in the first situation (section 1.5.1).  In the second situation (section 1.5.2), analogues of the existing dwc: terms have been created in the dwcuri: namespace which are intended to be used with URI-references rather than names.  In the third situation (section 1.5.3), new dwcuri: terms have been created to relate subject resources to URI-identified object resources which form part of a hierarchy.  If such a hierarchy already exists, the need is eliminated for separate terms (“convenience terms”) which relate the subject resource to all parts of the hierarchy, although those terms can still be used if they are convenient for facilitating string searches.  The last situation (section 1.5.4) is more complex and a significant part of the implementation guide is devoted to the ways in which RDF should be structured to handle various kinds of identifiers.  

=2 Implementation Guide=

==2.1 Definitions==
 
===2.1.1 Namespace abbreviations used in XML qualified names (QNames) in this document===
 
Table 1
||vocabulary name||namespace abbreviation||full prefix||
||Resource Description Framework||rdf:||http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#||
||RDF Schema||rdfs:||http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#||
||XML Schema||xsd:||http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#||
||Web Ontology Language||owl:||http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#||
||Darwin Core terms (string literal objects)||dwc:||http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/||
||Darwin Core type vocabulary||dwctype:||http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/dwctype/||
||Darwin Core terms (URI reference objects)||dwcuri:||http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/uri/||
||Dublin Core terms||dcterms:||http://purl.org/dc/terms/||
||Dublin Core legacy terms||dc:||http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/||
||Dublin Core type vocabulary||dcmitype:||http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/||
||FOAF vocabulary||foaf:||http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/||
||DBpedia resources||dbres:||http://dbpedia.org/resource/||
||GeoNames Ontology||gn:||http://www.geonames.org/ontology#||
||TDWG Collections (NCD) Ontology||col:||http://rs.tdwg.org/ontology/voc/Collection#||
||GeoSciML Geologic Timescale model Ontology||gsml:||http://resource.geosciml.org/ontology/timescale/gts-30#||
||Virtual International Authority File||viaf:||http://viaf.org/viaf/||
||Extensible Metadata Platform Rights Management vocabulary||xmpRights:||http://ns.adobe.com/xap/1.0/rights/||
||Audubon Core||ac:||http://rs.tdwg.org/ac/terms/||
||Open Annotation Data Model||oa:||http://www.w3.org/ns/oa#||
||RDFa Core 1.1||xhv:||http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml/vocab#||
 
For brevity, the examples do not include namespace declarations, nor an rdf:RDF container element.  If a user wishes to test or validate an example, insert it into the container element defined in section 2.1.2 .
 
===2.1.2 Generating graphical diagrams and triple tables for the examples===

The W3C RDF Validation Service [http://www.w3.org/RDF/Validator/ W3C-VALIDATOR] can be used to generate both a tabular listing and a graphical diagram of the triples that are included in the example XML serializations.  Text from the examples can be placed inside the rdf:RDF container element below, then pasted into the validator box to generate the desired output.
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/2000/01/rdf-schema#"
xmlns:xsd="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#"
xmlns:owl="http://www.w3.org/2002/07/owl#"
xmlns:dwc="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/"
xmlns:dwctype="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/dwctype/"
xmlns:dwcuri="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/uri/"
xmlns:dcterms="http://purl.org/dc/terms/"
xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
xmlns:dcmitype="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/"
xmlns:foaf="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/"
xmlns:dbres="http://dbpedia.org/resource/"
xmlns:gn="http://www.geonames.org/ontology#"
xmlns:col="http://rs.tdwg.org/ontology/voc/Collection#"
xmlns:gsml="http://resource.geosciml.org/ontology/timescale/gts-30#"
xmlns:viaf="http://viaf.org/viaf/"
>
… resource descriptions go here …
</rdf:RDF>
}}}
===2.1.3 Terminology===
 
"Resource" is a general term for any kind of entity that can be described using RDF.  Resources can be physical, conceptual, or digital entities. 
 
Statements about resources are made in RDF in the form of "triples" [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-primer/#basicconcepts RDF-TRIPLES].  A triple consists of a subject, a predicate, and an object:
 
Table 2

||Subject||Predicate||Object||
||<http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night>||<http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/maker>||<http://viaf.org/viaf/9854560>||
||dbres:Starry_night||foaf:maker||viaf:9854560||
 
In the second row of Table 2, the full URIs are given.  In the third row namespace abbreviations are used to shorten the URIs.  The following fragments of RDF shows the triple in RDF/XML and Turtle serializations:
 
Example 1:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night">
     <foaf:maker rdf:resource="http://viaf.org/viaf/9854560"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night>
     foaf:maker <http://viaf.org/viaf/9854560>.
}}}
The Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI) Abstract Model [http://dublincore.org/documents/abstract-model/ DCAM], which was designed to be compatible with RDF, describes subject resources using property-value pairs, which correspond to pairs of predicates and objects.  When referring to Dublin Core terms (as well as Darwin Core, which is modeled on Dublin Core) "property" is used synonymously with "predicate" and "value" is used synonymously with "object".  In Example 1, foaf:maker is a property and viaf:9854560 is the value associated with that property.
 
Predicates must be identified by URIs.  Objects of triples may be identified in three ways:  1) the object resource can be identified by a URI reference, 2) the object can be identified by a non-URI string, in which case it is called a literal, and  3) the object resource can also be left unidentified, in which case it is called a blank node or an anonymous node.  Blank nodes are undesirable if it is important that other data providers be able to refer to the resource they represent.  However, blank nodes may be preferable if external references to the resource are not relevant, or if the data provider is unable or unwilling to provide a stable URI to identify the resource.  URI references and blank nodes can be the subjects of RDF triples, but literals cannot. 
 
==2.2 Subject resources==
 
If the subject of an RDF triple is identified (i.e. not an anonymous node), it must be referenced by a URI.  This section describes how URI identifiers are referenced in RDF and how non-URI identifiers should be associated with the subject of the triple. 
 
===2.2.1 Identifying subject resources using URIs===
 
The rdf:about attribute of the rdf:Description element is used in RDF/XML to identify the subject of a triple:
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:165861">
}}}
===2.2.2 Associating a string identifier with a subject resource===
 
The Dublin Core term dcterms:identifier should be used to associate a string literal identifier (e.g. UUID, "Darwin Core Triplet", or ARK) with a URI-identified resource as shown here in RDF/XML:
{{{
<dcterms:identifier>58D31D52-713D-44B4-9FE9-CB2D9249C422</dcterms:identifier>
 
<dcterms:identifier>MVZ:Mamm:165861</dcterms:identifier>

<dcterms:identifier>ark:/12025/654xz321</dcterms:identifier>
}}}
If an HTTP URI is considered to be the identifier for a subject resource, it is acceptable to present it as a string literal value for dcterms:identifier in addition to using it in the rdf:about attribute of the subject resource, as in Example 2:

Example 2:
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/kirchoff/b5161">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource ="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/StillImage" />
     <dcterms:identifier>http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/kirchoff/b5161</dcterms:identifier>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Since the DOI Display Guidelines [http://www.crossref.org/02publishers/doi_display_guidelines.html DOI-DISPLAY] specify that DOIs should be presented in their HTTP-proxied form, they should be provided in that form (rather than in the “doi:” form) if exposed as literal values of dcterms:identifier as shown in Example 2.
 
===2.2.3 Associating a URN with its HTTP-proxied equivalent===
 
The TDWG LSID Applicability Statement standard [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ LSID-STANDARD] specifies in Recommendation 30 that "The description of all objects identified by an LSID must contain an owl:sameAs, owl:equivalentProperty or owl:equivalentClass statement expressing the equivalence between the object identifier in its standard form and its proxy version".  This is illustrated by Example 3:
 
Example 3:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:35115">
     <owl:sameAs rdf:resource="urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:35115"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:35115>
     owl:sameAs <urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:35115>.
}}}
Since LSIDs follow the URN URI scheme, they can serve as the subject of any RDF triple.  However, it is better to use the http-proxied form as the subject (i.e. the value of the rdf:about attribute) in the description of the resource.  See the informative ancillary web pages for more information about implementing LSIDs.  

This practice can be extended to any URN.  For example, owl:sameAs can be used to relate the URN <urn:uuid:f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6> to its HTTP-proxied equivalent <http://provider.org/f81d4fae-7dec-11d0-a765-00a0c91e6bf6> in a manner analogous to Example 3.
 
==2.3 Predicates==
 
Most terms in the Darwin Core vocabulary can be used as predicates in triples to represent properties of subject resources.  The full term URI must be used, although with an appropriate namespace declaration, the namespace can be abbreviated.  RDF does not restrict the source of predicates, therefore Darwin Core terms can be mixed with terms from other vocabularies.  This includes the important predicate rdf:type which is used to indicate the class of which the subject resource is an instance.  There is no prohibition in RDF against repeating properties.
 
===2.3.1 Declaring the type of the resource===
 
In RDF, a resource may be characterized by declaring that it is an instance of a class.  Indicating that a resource is an instance of a class provides several benefits.  It allows a consumer to narrow the results of a search by limiting the search to certain types of resources.  It suggests to data providers what sorts of properties should be used to describe a resource.  It allows consumers to anticipate what sorts of properties they might expect to be provided for that resource and allows developers to build applications that exploit those expectations. 
 
Because of these benefits, RDF provides several built-in mechanisms for asserting class membership, most notably the rdf:type property [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/#ch_type RDF-TYPE] which is used to state that a resource is an instance of a class.  
 
There is nothing that prohibits assigning more than one rdf:type property to a resource.  In fact, there may be a benefit in describing a resource as a member of both a class which has specific meaning within a narrow community and a more well-known class which has a broader meaning and is therefore more likely to be understood by generic clients.  For instance, a resource may be typed as both a dwctype:PreservedSpecimen and a dcmitype:PhysicalObject . 
 
====2.3.1.1 rdf:type statement====
 
The predicate rdf:type is defined to have an object that is a class.  The class should be identified by a URI reference (not by a literal) as in Example 4:
 
Example 4:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/baskauf/12226">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/StillImage"/>
      <dcterms:created rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#dateTime">2002-06-11T09:37:33</dcterms:created>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle:
{{{
<http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/baskauf/12226>
     a dcmitype:StillImage;
     dcterms:created "2002-06-11T09:37:33"^^xsd:dateTime.
}}}
In XML serialization, the RDF specification provides an abbreviated way to specify the type of a described resource.  This method is called a typed node element [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-primer/#newresources TYPED-NODE].  The rdf:Description element is replaced by an element whose name is an XML qualified name that identifies a class of which the described resource is an instance as iin Example 5:
 
Example 5:
{{{
<dcmitype:StillImage rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/baskauf/12226">
      <dcterms:created rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#dateTime">2002-06-11T09:37:33</dcterms:created>
</dcmitype:StillImage>
}}}
This example serializes the exact same two triples as Example 4.  The rdf:type triple is implied by the container element name.
 
====2.3.1.2 rdf:type assertion through domain and range declarations====
 
The RDF Schema (RDFS) specification [http://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-schema/ RDFS] defines two terms that assert rdf:type implicitly when certain predicates are used.  When a predicate P having the property
{{{
P rdfs:domain C
}}}
is used to describe a subject resource, a client can infer that the subject resource is an instance of class C.  For example, the term dcterms:bibliographicCitation is assigned the property
{{{
<rdfs:domain rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/terms/BibliographicResource"/>
}}}
in its definition.  If that term were used as the property of a specimen a client could infer that the specimen had rdf:type dcterms:BibliographicResource:
 
Example 6:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:165861">
     <dcterms:bibliographicCitation>Ctenomys sociabilis (MVZ 165861)</dcterms:bibliographicCitation>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle 
{{{
<http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:165861>
     dcterms:bibliographicCitation "Ctenomys sociabilis (MVZ 165861)".
}}}
When a predicate P having the property
{{{
P rdfs:range C
}}}
is used with a value, a client can infer that the value is an instance of class C.   The term dcterms:language is assigned the property
{{{
<rdfs:range rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/terms/LinguisticSystem"/>
}}}
in its definition.  If the object of that term in an RDF triple is a reference to the URI for English assigned by the MARC List of Languages [http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/languages MARC-LANGUAGES] (Example 7), then it can be inferred that http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/languages/eng is a dcterms:LingisticSystem even though the MARC description in RDF does not include that assertion in its definition.
 
Example 7:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://dx.doi.org/10.5962/bhl.title.59991">
     <dcterms:language rdf:resource="http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/languages/eng"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://dx.doi.org/10.5962/bhl.title.59991>
     dcterms:language <http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/languages/eng>.
}}}
No terms defined within the Darwin Core namespace have range or domain declarations.  However, some terms imported into Darwin Core from Dublin Core do have domain or range declarations.  Part 3 of this guide gives the declared ranges and domains when they are asserted for such terms.
 
====2.3.1.3 Explicit vs. inferred type declarations====
 
Because the use of a predicate having a range or domain declaration implies the rdf:type of a resource, data providers should exercise caution in using any such term in a non-standard way.  For example, if the property foaf:familyName were used with a specimen (e.g. to indicate the taxonomic family), that use would imply that the specimen was a foaf:Person . 
 
However, it cannot be assumed that all clients will perform the reasoning necessary to infer the rdf:type declarations implied by range and domain declarations.  Therefore, if a data provider feels that it is important for a consumer to know that a resource is an instance of a particular class, the provider should type the resource using an explicit rdf:type triple even if that asserts the same information that could be inferred from a domain or range declaration.  For example, if providers of images want to assure that an image will be found in a query for resources having rdf:type foaf:Image, they should not assume that describing the image using the property foaf:depicts will accomplish that because of the range declaration of foaf:depicts.  It would be safer to include
{{{
<rdf:type rdf:resource="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Image"/>
}}}
in the description of the image.  In fact, the provider would probably also want to include
{{{
<rdf:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/StillImage"/>
}}}
in the description so that clients searching for either foaf:Image or dcmitype:StillImage would find the image.
 
====2.3.1.4 Other predicates used to indicate type====
 
Both the Dublin Core and Darwin Core define terms which can be used to describe the nature of a resource: dcterms:type and dwc:basisOfRecord respectively.  However, using these terms to describe the nature of the subject resource is not a substitute for use of rdf:type .  The DCMI notes on RDF semantics [http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-rdf/#sect-5 RDF-SEMANTICS] recommend that "applications implementing this specification primarily use and understand rdf:type in place of dcterms:type when expressing Dublin Core metadata in RDF, as most RDF processors come with built-in knowledge of rdf:type."  A similar argument could be made for the use of rdf:type over dwc:basisOfRecord .  Including dc:type, dcterms:type and dwc:basisOfRecord in an RDF description should be considered optional, while including rdf:type should be considered highly recommended.  A dwcuri: analogue (Section 2.5) of dwc:basisOfRecord should not be used.  Use rdf:type instead when the object is a URI reference.
 
Here is an example that describes a specimen using several of the terms that define the nature of a resource explicitly, including multiple rdf:type declarations:
 
Example 8:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:165861">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/dwctype/PreservedSpecimen"/>
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/PhysicalObject"/>
     <dc:type>PhysicalObject</dc:type>
     <dcterms:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/PhysicalObject"/>     
     <dwc:basisOfRecord>PreservedSpecimen</dwc:basisOfRecord>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:165861>
     a dwctype:PreservedSpecimen,
       dcmitype:PhysicalObject;
     dc:type "PhysicalObject";
     dcterms:type dcmitype:PhysicalObject;
     dwc:basisOfRecord "PreservedSpecimen".
}}}
Refer to sections 2.4.3 and 2.5 for an explanation of the distinction between terms in the dc:, dcterms:, dwc:, and dwcuri: namespaces.

====2.3.1.5 Classes to be used for type declarations of resources described using Darwin Core====

The TDWG GUID Applicability Statement standard [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ GUID-STANDARD] specifies that an object in the biodiversity domain that is identified by a GUID should be typed using a well-known vocabulary. With this recommendation in mind, it should be considered a best practice to provide information about the type (i.e. class membership) of any resource that is assigned a persistent identifier in the form of a URI.  Since Darwin Core is a well-known vocabulary and a ratified TDWG standard, its classes should be used for typing in preference to classes in parts of the TDWG ontology which are not ratified standards.  An exception to this is the Darwin Core Taxon class whose meaning is too vague.  As of the writing of this guide, there is no class name defined in any standard for taxon concepts and taxon names as they are described in the TDWG Taxon Concept Transfer Schema (TCS) Standard.  This guide does not specify what specific kinds of resources should be included within particular Darwin Core classes since that is a matter for community consensus (section 1.4.4)

Darwin Core defines two categories of classes.  Classes defined within the general Darwin Core terms namespace (dwc:=http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/) serve to categorize the Darwin Core terms that are properties.  Classes defined within the Darwin Core Type Vocabulary namespace (dwctype:=http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/dwctype/) are intended to categorize Darwin Core resources.  In cases where there are parallel classes in the term vocabulary and the type vocabulary (dwc:Occurrence/dwctype:Occurrence and dwc:Event/dcmitype:Event), the class in the type vocabulary should be used as the object of rdf:type declarations of resources described using Darwin Core.  The exception to this pattern is dcterms:Location, which should be used in preference of dwctype:Location given that the Dublin Core vocabulary serves a broader community and more likely to be known by clients.  

The following list summarizes the classes included in Darwin Core that should be used for typing biodiversity-related resources:

dwctype:Occurrence
dcmitype:Event
dcterms:Location [add to DwC type vocabulary, deprecate dwctype:Location]
dwc:GeologicalContext [propose dwctype:GeologicalContext ?]
dwc:Identification [propose dwctype:Identification]
dwctype:PreservedSpecimen
dwctype:FossilSpecimen
dwctype:LivingSpecimen
dwctype:HumanObservation
dwctype:MachineObservation
dwctype:NomenclaturalChecklist
decide what to do about dwctype:Taxon [probably remove from list]

The following list summarizes classes included in the Dublin Core type vocabulary (but which are not part of Darwin Core) that should be used for typing biodiversity-related resources:

dcmitype:StillImage
dcmitype:MovingImage
dcmitype:Sound
dcmitype:PhysicalObject

==2.4 Object resources==
 
Section 1.31 of the Introduction to this guide shows how the object of an RDF triple can be a expressed as either a string literal or a URI reference.  It is also possible to have non-literal objects that are not identified by a URI.  These are known as blank or anonymous nodes.  This section describes how to express objects in each of these three forms.  Section 1.4.3 and section 1.5 of the Introduction explains the issues involved in exposing data for which values as string literals (e.g. names, citations, and codes) are used as proxies for non-literal resources.  This section also discusses strategies for expressing such data as RDF. 
 
===2.4.1 Literal object resources===
 
Some resources such as titles, dates, and numbers can be intrinsically expressed as strings. In cases where it is appropriate for the object of a triple to be a string, in RDF/XML the string is placed in a container element whose qualified name is the property:
{{{
<dwc:catalogNumber>s1987-00397</dwc:catalogNumber>
}}}
====2.4.1.1 Typed literals====
 
Because literals cannot be the subjects of RDF triples, it is not possible to describe the properties of literals extensively in RDF.  However, literals can be typed using attributes in their containing XML element.  This provides additional information about the string that may be beneficial for allowing a client to interpret the string.
 
If the string expresses information in a particular language, a provider may include an xml:lang attribute [http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml/#sec-lang-tag XML-LANG] to indicate the language of the string through the RFC 4646 language code [http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4646.txt LANG-CODES] for that language as in the following example:
 
Example 9:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://dx.doi.org/10.1525/auk.2009.09022">
     <dcterms:bibliographicCitation xml:lang="en">S. Claramunt, et al. 2009. Polyphyly of Campylorhamphus, and Description of a New Genus for C. pucherani (Dendrocolaptinae). The Awk 127(2):430-439.</dcterms:bibliographicCitation>
     <dcterms:bibliographicCitation xml:lang="es">S. Claramunt, et al. 2009. Polifilia de Campylorhamphus y la Descripción de un Nuevo Género para C. pucherani (Dendrocolaptinae). The Awk 127(2):430-439.</dcterms:bibliographicCitation>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://dx.doi.org/10.1525/auk.2009.09022>
     dcterms:bibliographicCitation "S. Claramunt, et al. 2009. Polyphyly of Campylorhamphus, and Description of a New Genus for C. pucherani (Dendrocolaptinae). The Awk 127(2):430-439."@en,
                                   "S. Claramunt, et al. 2009. Polifilia de Campylorhamphus y la Descripción de un Nuevo Género para C. pucherani (Dendrocolaptinae). The Awk 127(2):430-439."@es.
}}}
The rdf datatype attribute [http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-rdf-syntax/#section-Syntax-datatyped-literals RDF-DATATYPE] can also be used to indicate that the string conforms to a particular format, such as an integer, date, etc.:

Example 10:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/hessd/e5240#loc">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource ="http://purl.org/dc/terms/Location" />
     <dwc:decimalLatitude rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#decimal">35.857959</dwc:decimalLatitude>
     <dwc:decimalLongitude rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#decimal">-86.298055</dwc:decimalLongitude>
     <dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters rdf:datatype="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#int">20</dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/hessd/e5240#loc>
     a dcterms:Location;
     dwc:decimalLatitude "35.857959"^^xsd:decimal;
     dwc:decimalLongitude "-86.298055"^^xsd:decimal;
     dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters "20"^^xsd:int.
}}}
Section 3.4 suggests which Darwin Core terms might be appropriately used with datatype or language attributes.
 
====2.4.1.2 Terms intended for use with literal objects====
 
The definitions of some terms make it clear that they should be used with literal objects.  Darwin Core specifically "imports" several Dublin Core terms [http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/ DCMI-TERMS] into its vocabulary for use in describing biodiversity data.  In some cases, terms in the dcterms: namespace have range declarations of rdfs:Literal and are therefore understood to be intended for use with literal objects (strings).  In some vocabularies, such as the TDWG Taxon Concept Ontology, certain terms are required to have literal objects because in their definitions they are declared to be owl:Datatype properties. 
 
In the case of Darwin Core terms in the dwc: (http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/) namespace, the normative term definitions in RDF do not include any declarations that indicate whether the terms should be used with literal or URI reference objects.  (Exceptions to this are the various date-related terms, which inherit the range rdfs:Literal because they are rdfs:subPropertyOf dcterms:date.)  However, because the dwc: terms were originally designed to accommodate text and XML data transfer, their definitions generally specify how term values should be expressed as string literals.  This guide establishes the convention that terms in the dwc: namespace should be restricted to use with literal objects so that their use in RDF will be consistent with their definitions.  As discussed in section 1.4.3 and section 2.5 below, this guide introduces a separate namespace http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/uri/ (abbreviated as dwcuri:) for additional Darwin Core terms which are intended to have objects that are URI references.  
 
===2.4.2 Non-literal object resources===
 
Resources that are physical or conceptual cannot be intrinsically represented as string literals and if identified, they are referenced in RDF by URIs.  Digital resources (e.g. images, web pages, etc.) could be represented as literals (the encoded content of the resource), but because many characters would be required to do that, they are usually referenced as independent entities through URIs.  In RDF/XML a URI reference to a non-literal object can be made using the attribute rdf:resource in an empty XML element:
{{{
<dcterms:rightsHolder rdf:resource="http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:15666"/>
}}}
A description of the referenced non-literal object may be found within the same document, among data from another provider, or there may be no description of the object.
 
If the RDF document will describe further properties of the non-literal, URI-identified resource, those properties can be placed within an rdf:Description container element having an rdf:about attribute whose value is the URI of the resource:
 
Example 11:
{{{
<dcterms:rightsHolder>
     <rdf:Description rdf:about="http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:15666">
          <dcterms:identifier>FSU</dcterms:identifier>
     </rdf:Description>
<dcterms:rightsHolder>
}}}
If the non-literal object is not identified by a URI (i.e. it is a blank node), its properties can be placed within an rdf:Description container element that has no rdf:about attribute and which is itself within a container element for the property:
 
Example 12:
{{{
<dcterms:rightsHolder>
     <rdf:Description>
           <dcterms:title>Trustees of the University of Lavonia</dcterms:title>
     </rdf:Description>
<dcterms:rightsHolder>
}}}
 
====2.4.2.1 When should non-literal object resources be described within the same document?====
 
There are positive and negative aspects to describing a resource within the same document that references it.  If the URI is not dereferenceable either because the URI is not a type that can be dereferenced by HTTP (e.g. a URN) or because the issuer of the URI is temporarily or permanently failing to respond to HTTP calls, then providing minimal information about the resource in the referencing document may be beneficial.  For example, if a property referred to a printed book which had an ISBN but no HTTP URI, as in:
 
Example 13:
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/taxon/30148-gleason1991">
     <dcterms:references rdf:resource="urn:isbn:0893273651"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
a description providing basic publication data such as:
 
Example 14:
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="urn:isbn:0893273651">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document"/>
     <dcterms:date>1991</dcterms:date>
     <dcterms:title xml:lang="en">Manual of Vascular Plants of Northeastern United States and Adjacent Canada</dcterms:title>
     <dc:creator>Gleason, Henry A. and Arthur Cronquist</dc:creator>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
could be included as part of the document that references the ISBN in URN form. The RDF shown in Examples 13 and 14 could be represented in Turtle as:
{{{
<http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/taxon/30148-gleason1991>
     dcterms:references <urn:isbn:0893273651>.
<urn:isbn:0893273651>
     a foaf:Document;
     dcterms:date "1991";
     dcterms:title "Manual of Vascular Plants of Northeastern United States and Adjacent Canada"@en;
     dc:creator "Gleason, Henry A. and Arthur Cronquist".
}}}
However, if the URI references an object resource whose data are being actively managed by another provider, then any data which are included in the referencing document may become outdated.  In that case, it is probably better to simply link the URI, and let the consumer of the referring document dereference the URI to retrieve the most up-to-date data about the object resource.  In this example:
 
Example 15:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://www.morphbank.net/?id=541608">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/dcmitype/StillImage"/>
     <dcterms:rightsHolder rdf:resource=”http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:15666"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://www.morphbank.net/?id=541608>
     a dcmitype:StillImage;
     dcterms:rightsHolder <http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:15666>.
}}}
the rights holder object URI is managed by an institution other than the image owner.  That institution might update the data associated with the URI at any time.  So it would probably be best to simply let consumers retrieve data about the rights holder through dereferencing the URI.
 
=====2.4.2.1.1 Objects identified by LSIDs=====
 
In the previous example, the HTTP URI used as the object of the dcterms:rightsHolder property was an HTTP-proxied form of an LSID.  Because an LSID is a URN and therefore a type of URI, the RDF specification does not prohibit the use of an LSID as a URI referenced object.  However, the TDWG LSID Applicability Guide standard dictates that LSIDs must not be used as the object of RDF triples (Recommendation 31 of [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/150/ LSID-STANDARD]) because a client would not necessarily be able to dereference the LSID to discover additional information about the object resource.  The HTTP-proxied version of the LSID should be used instead (see section 2.2.3).  See the informative ancillary web pages for more information about using LSIDs in RDF.
 
====2.4.2.2 Objects which are blank (anonymous) nodes====
 
Under most circumstances, it is desirable to refer to a non-literal object resource by a URI because omitting a URI reference makes it impossible to associate an external reference with the object resource.  In the following example:
 
Example 16:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://museum.org/accession/12312">
     <dcterms:references>
          <rdf:Description>
               <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://xmlns.com/foaf/0.1/Document"/>
               <dcterms:date>2003</dcterms:date>
               <dcterms:title>Collection notes</dcterms:title>
               <dc:creator>Joe Curator</dc:creator>
          </rdf:Description>
     </dcterms:references>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://museum.org/accession/12312>
     dcterms:references [a foaf:Document ;
                         dcterms:date "2003" ;
                         dcterms:title "Collection notes" ;
                         dc:creator "Joe Curator"].
}}}
the described subject resource refers to an object resource that is not identified with a URI, that is, an object resource represented by a blank node.  From the properties of the unidentified resource we know that the object resource is a foaf:Document from 2003 entitled "Collection notes" and created by Joe Curator.  By using a blank node to represent the resource, the properties of that resource can be described and collectively associated with the dcterms:references property without requiring the data provider to mint a URI for that resource. 
 
The data provider may feel that there is no need for another provider to refer to that resource, or the provider may be unwilling or unable to maintain a separate identifier for the resource.  For example, in Example 12, the data provider may not have had access to a URI identifier for the Trustees of the University of Lavonia and might not be interested in taking on the job of assigning one.  At some future point, the provider could replace the blank node with a URI reference if a URI for the Trustees of the University of Lavonia were discovered.
 
===2.4.3 Object resources which have been previously represented by literals but which are actually non-literal resources===
 
In databases the names of entities have frequently been used to represent the entities themselves.  For example, the name of a person is often used as a proxy for the person, or an abbreviation for a language has been used to represent the language itself.  Prior to the creation of the DCMI Abstract Model, many data which were described using terms in the legacy Dublin Core namespace dc: (http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/) followed the historical practice of using the name of an entity to represent a non-literal entity.  Extending this practice to RDF would result in representations such as this:
 
Example 17:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night">
     <dc:creator>Vincent van Gogh</dc:creator>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night>
     dc:creator "Vincent van Gogh".
}}}
However, over time, the community of RDF users has come to consider it a best practice to distinguish between a string (such as a name) and the thing that the string represents [http://wiki.foaf-project.org/w/UsingDublinCoreCreator USING-DUBLIN-CORE-CREATOR].  To make the distinction between strings and the resources they represent, there has been an effort to clarify whether particular terms should be used with literal objects, or with URI reference objects. 
 
====2.4.3.1 Literal values for non-literal resources in Dublin Core====

The introduction of the DCMI Abstract Model (DCAM) and subsequent guidelines for the use of Dublin Core terms in RDF [http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-rdf/#sect-4  DC-RDF] were intended to clarify the use of Dublin Core terms with literal and non-literal objects [http://dublincore.org/documents/2008/01/14/dc-rdf-notes/#sect-3 DC-RDF-NOTES].  In particular, ranges were declared for terms in the dcterms: namespace (http://purl.org/dc/terms/) with the intention of clarifying whether each term was intended for use with a literal or a non-literal value.  For example, dcterms:bibliographicCitation has the range rdfs:Literal, while dcterms:creator has range dcterms:Agent.  Because the term dcterms:creator has a non-literal range, it should be used with an object that is a URI reference as illustrated in the following example:
 
Example 18:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night">
     <dcterms:creator rdf:resource="http://viaf.org/viaf/9854560"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://dbpedia.org/resource/Starry_night>
     dcterms:creator <http://viaf.org/viaf/9854560>.
}}}
The Dublin Core RDF guidelines [http://dublincore.org/documents/dc-rdf/#sect-4 DC-RDF] provided a mechanism using the term rdf:value to permit legacy string literal data to be associated with Dublin Core terms in the dcterms: namespace that were not intended for use with literal objects.  Using this mechanism, a non-literal resource could be represented by a blank node having an rdf:value property whose value was the legacy string literal.  This value is known as a “value string”.  However, the mechanism which involves using rdf:value as a predicate has not been widely implemented. 
 
At the time when the dcterms: terms were defined, terms in the dc: namespace were left without range declarations.  Thus it has been considered acceptable to use the dc: namespace terms with legacy string literals (i.e. value strings) as shown in Example 15 [http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/User_Guide/Publishing_Metadata#Legacy_namespace DCMI-LINKED-DATA-GUIDE]. 
 
Many providers of non-RDF data may have used literal values for terms in the dcterms: namespace that have non-literal ranges.  Note that all terms in the dcterms: namespace that have corresponding terms in the dc: namespace (i.e. terms with identical local names sensu [http://www.w3.org/TR/swbp-vocab-pub/#naming RDF-VOCAB-PUB]) are declared to be rdfs:subPropertyOf those dc: namespace terms [http://dublincore.org/usage/decisions/2008/dcterms-changes/#sect-2 DC-SUBPROPERTY-RELATIONS].  So if a data provider's non-RDF database contains string values for terms in the dcterms: namespace having non-literal ranges, it is appropriate to expose those literals in RDF as values of corresponding dc: terms.
 
====2.4.3.2 Literal values for non-literal resources in Darwin Core====
 
Because there are many legacy data composed of string values of dwc: namespace (http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/ ) terms whose objects actually represent non-literal entities (i.e. value strings sensu DCAM), it is likely that many providers will at least initially expose such data in RDF as string literals served directly from their existing databases [http://www.w3.org/TR/r2rml/ RDB2RDF].  To make it possible for the legacy data to be exposed as RDF while also ensuring that the meaning of those data is preserved, in RDF the literal value of an existing Darwin Core term in the dwc: namespace should have the same structure as that described in the term's description, as in Example 19.
 
Example 19:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:115956">
     <dwc:recordedBy>Oliver P. Pearson; Anita K. Pearson</dwc:recordedBy>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:115956>
     <dwc:recordedBy> "Oliver P. Pearson; Anita K. Pearson".
}}}
The terms in the dwc: namespace should NOT be used for URI reference objects, even if the term definition suggests that the object resource is of a non-literal type.  Instead, URI reference objects should be used with terms in the dwcuri: namespace as defined by this guide in Section 2.5 .  When a string value is provided as the object of a dwc: namespace term whose definition suggests that the object is of a non-literal type, that string is understood to be serving as a value string.  
 
==2.5 Terms in the dwcuri: namespace==
 
Terms in the namespace dwcuri: (http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/uri/ ) are intended for use with URI reference objects and should NOT be used with literal objects.  They may also be used with blank node objects, although in most cases this will probably be unnecessary.
 
===2.5.1 Definition of dwcuri: terms===
 
If a term in the dwcuri: namespace has a corresponding term with the same local name [http://www.w3.org/TR/swbp-vocab-pub/#naming RDF-VOCAB-PUB] in the dwc: namespace, the dwcuri: namespace term is defined to have the same meaning as its dwc: namespace term analogue.  In defining a dwcuri: term that has a dwc: analogue, the definition of the dwc: term is understood to be modified in the following ways:
- when a dwcuri: term is used as an RDF predicate, its non-literal object will be identified by a URI reference rather than a string literal
- the object of the dwcuri: term predicate will be a single resource.  If the dwc: term definition specifies that multiple values should be a concatenated list, the resource described by a dwcuri: property should be the subject of a triple for each value on the list.  Alternatively, a single triple can be used to describe the subject if the object is a single resource composed of component resources described using additional RDF triples.

Several terms in the dwcuri: namespace do not have dwc: namespace analogues (dwcuri:inCollection, dwcuri:toTaxonConcept, dwcuri:inDescribedPlace, dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra, and dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra).  Their definitions are given in the normative RDF for dwcuri: properties and are displayed in the corresponding html page describing dwcuri: properties.  
 
===2.5.2 Using terms in the Darwin Core dwcuri: namespace with non-literal objects identified by URI references===
 
The following example shows how the data from Example 19 could be expressed if URIs were available to identify the persons whose names composed the literal:
 
Example 20:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:115956">
     <dwcuri:recordedBy rdf:resource="http://viaf.org/viaf/263074474" />
     <dwcuri:recordedBy rdf:resource="http://museum-x.org/personnel/akp" />
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:115956>
     dwcuri:recordedBy <http://viaf.org/viaf/263074474>,
                       <http://museum-x.org/personnel/akp>.
}}}
where http://viaf.org/viaf/263074474 is a persistent URI identifier for the person whose name is "Oliver P. Pearson" and http://museum-x.org/personnel/akp is a persistent URI identifier for the person whose name is "Anita K. Pearson".
 
===2.5.3 Expectation of clients encountering RDF containing dwc: and dwcuri: terms===
 
A client that encounters a triple having a term from the dwcuri: namespace as its predicate can expect the object of the triple to be a URI reference and subsequently be able to dereference that URI to obtain additional information about the entity that it represents.  A client encountering a triple having a term from the dwc: namespace should be prepared to accept a literal object, although it is possible that some data providers unaware of this guide may have used dwc: terms with URI references as rdf:resource attributes.  Application developers should be flexible in their expectations for the values of properties from the dwc: namespace. 
 
==2.6 Darwin Core ID terms and RDF==
 
Darwin Core contains a number of "ID" terms intended to designate identifiers, e.g. dwc:occurrenceID, dwc:identificationID, dwc:locationID, etc.  The "ID" terms provide two functions, specifying the class of the resource and indicating that value of the term is an identifier.  These functions are illustrated by the following non-RDF XML below, which is part of an example provided in the Darwin Core XML Guide [http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/guides/xml/index.htm#classes DWC-XML]:
 
Example 21:
(non-RDF)
{{{
<dwc:Identification>
     <dwc:identificationID>http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459</dwc:identificationID>
     <dwc:identifiedBy>Richard Sage</dwc:identifiedBy>
     <dwc:dateIdentified>2000</dwc:dateIdentified>
     <dwc:taxonID>urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721</dwc:taxonID>
</dwc:Identification>
}}}
This example could also be represented by the following database table in which each record (row) represents an dwc:Identification instance and in which each column represents a property of the dwc:Identification instance as indicated by the column heading:
 
Table 3

||dwc:identificationID||dwc:identifiedBy||dwc:dateIdentified||dwc:taxonID||
||"http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459"||"Richard Sage"||"2000"||"urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721"||


In Example 21 and Table 3, the "ID" terms are used to specify both the identifier of a resource which is the subject of the record itself (using the term dwc:identificationID) and to specify an object resource related to the subject resource by a foreign key (using the term dwc:taxonID).  Because the ID terms are not designated to be used with subjects or objects specifically, the resource they identify must be made clear by the context in which they are used.  In the case of the database table, a pre-existing understanding between the data provider and consumer would indicate that the rows of the table represent dwc:Identification instances and therefore the dwc:identificationID property would provide the identifier of the subject and any other ID terms would refer to object resources that are related to that particular identification instance.  In the XML example, the type of the subject resource is made clear through the record's container element and hence a consumer would know that the dwc:identificationID property referred to the subject resource.
 
In RDF, the two functions (specifying type and referencing an identifier) are handled separately using rdf:type declarations (section 2.3.1) and defined mechanisms for expressing the identifier of the subject resource (section 2.2).  Because these mechanisms are well-known best practices outside TDWG, they should be used rather than using the Darwin Core ID terms when data are expressed as RDF. 
 
The following example shows an appropriate way to express the information in Example 21 as RDF:
 
Example 22:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/Identification"/>
     <dcterms:identifier>http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459</dcterms:identifier>
     <dwc:identifiedBy>Richard Sage</dwc:identifiedBy>
     <dwc:dateIdentified>2000</dwc:dateIdentified>
     <dwcuri:toTaxonConcept rdf:resource="http://lsid.tdwg.org/urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle:
{{{
<http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459>
     a dwc:Identification;
     dcterms:identifier "http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459";
     dwc:identifiedBy "Richard Sage";
     dwc:dateIdentified "2000";
     dwcuri:toTaxonConcept <http://lsid.tdwg.org/urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721>.
}}}
The following points about the Example 22 should be noted:
1. In RDF/XML use the rdf:about attribute of an rdf:Description element to specify a URI identifier used with the subject ID term, i.e. the value of dwc:identificationID is an HTTP URI and can therefore be used with the rdf:about attribute. The dcterms:identifier property can also be used to express the primary identifier for the subject resource as a literal.  In Example 22, the HTTP URI is considered the primary identifier for the Identification instance so it is included as a string value of dcterms:identifier as well as the URI of the subject resource.  Refer to Section 2.2.1 and 2.2.2 for more details.
2. Data providers who want to relate a subject resource to related non-literal resources should use object properties (i.e. properties which relate URI-identified instances to other URI-identified instances) [http://www.w3.org/TR/owl-primer/#Object_Properties OWL-PRIMER] from a well-known vocabulary or ontology.  Darwin Core does not generally define object properties that connect its core classes and in those cases users will have to find object properties outside of Darwin Core (see the informative ancillary web pages for examples).  In this example, the term dwcuri:toTaxonConcept (see Section 2.7.4) is used to relate the dwc:Identification instance to a taxon concept instance.  (Please note that this is for illustration purposes only and this guide takes no position on the nature of taxon concepts or whether the resource used in this example is actually a taxon concept or not.)
3. If an identified object of a triple is a non-literal resource (section 2.4.2), RDF requires that it be referenced by a URI.  Although the UUID "d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721" is a globally unique and hopefully persistent identifier for the taxon, it is not a URI.  Catalog of Life has created a URI from the UUID in the form of an LSID:
{{{
<urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721>
}}}
so expressing the object reference as
{{{
<dwcuri:toTaxonConcept rdf:resource="urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721"/>
}}}
would be valid RDF.  However, best practices (Section 2.4.2.1.1) specify that when LSIDs are the objects of triples, they should be in HTTP-proxied form.  In Example 22, the LSID is proxied using the TDWG LSID resolver. 
4. The class of the subject identification instance (dwc:Identification) is asserted explicitly using rdf:type.  The type of the object taxon concept instance is not stated directly - a client would need to dereference the URI to discover it.  
  
===2.6.1 Unintended consequences of using Darwin Core ID terms in RDF===
 
The previous section showed that using a Darwin Core ID term to indicate the identifier associated with the subject resource is not necessary because there are well-known means in RDF (the rdf:about attribute and the dcterms:identifier property) for exposing the subject’s identifier.  However, as shown below, using a Darwin Core ID term to identify an object resource (as shown in the non-RDF XML Example 21) would actually be problematic. 
 
In its normative definition, each Darwin Core ID term is declared to be rdfs:subPropertyOf dcterms:identifier .  In RDF, the purpose of a subproperty declaration is to allow a client with reasoning capability to infer a triple containing a broader (and presumably more well-known) property. In the terminology of Dublin Core, the "ID" term is a qualifier which "refines" a basic Dublin Core term [http://dublincore.org/documents/usageguide/qualifiers.shtml DC-QUALIFIER] and the process of inferring a broader meaning from a more specific term is called a "dumb-down" operation.  If a provider attempting to expose the data of Table 3 as RDF used the dwc:taxonID term as a property of the identification as shown in the (incorrect) Example 23:
 
Example 23:

RDF/XML (incorrect usage)
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/Identification"/>
     <dwc:identifiedBy>Richard Sage</dwc:identifiedBy>
     <dwc:dateIdentified>2000</dwc:dateIdentified>
     <dwc:taxonID>http://lsid.tdwg.org/urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721</dwc:taxonID>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle (incorrect usage)
{{{
<http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459>
     a dwc:Identification;
     dwc:identifiedBy "Richard Sage";
     dwc:dateIdentified "2000";
     dwc:taxonID "http://lsid.tdwg.org/urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721".
}}}
there would be an undesired effect if a client unfamiliar with Darwin Core performed a "dumb-down" operation (i.e. fell back to the broader meaning of the dwc:taxonID term as dcterms:identifier).   The client would infer the triple:
 
Table 4
||Subject||Predicate||Object||
||<http://guid.mvz.org/identifications/23459>||dcterms:identifier||"http://lsid.tdwg.org/urn:lsid:catalogueoflife.org:taxon:d79c11aa-29c1-102b-9a4a-00304854f820:col20120721"||
 
where the value of the dwc:taxonID term was the identifier of the subject resource rather than of the object resource as intended by the data provider.  This is why data providers will generally need to look outside Darwin Core for object properties that can be used to relate instances of one class to instances of another instead of using the Darwin Core ID terms.
 
==2.7 Darwin Core convenience terms==

In several situations, providers of Darwin Core text-based data use a set of hierarchical property/value pairs to unambiguously specify a resource.  For example, a database record for a resource collected at N 36.4024°, W 87.02219° might contain the following data: 

Table 5
||dwc:decimalLatitude||dwc:decimalLongitude||dwc:geodeticDatum||dwc:continent||dwc:country||dwc:stateProvince||dwc:county||
||"36.4024"||"-87.02219"||"EPSG:4326"||"North America"||"United States"||"Tennessee"||"Robertson"||

The data unambiguously specifies the lowest level political subdivision (Robertson County) by including the higher level political subdivisions in the hierarchy and thus differentiates it from other places that are second-order administrative divisions identified by the string “Robertson” (e.g. Robertson County, Texas, US or Robertson County, Kentucky, US).  Darwin Core terms that are used to form a hierarchy of literal values are called convenience terms.  

===2.7.1 What purpose do convenience terms serve?===

When expressing the data about resources collected in Robertson County in RDF, it really isn’t necessary to indicate in every record that North America is a parent feature of the United States, that the United States is a parent feature of Tennessee, and that Tennessee is a parent feature of Robertson County.  It is only necessary to link the record to a URI for Robertson County such as <http://sws.geonames.org/4653638/> and a semantic client can discover the parent features by traversing the gn:parentFeature property of features included in the hierarchy.  Once a client has discovered the higher level parts of the hierarchy in which it is interested, no additional retrieval of data about the hierarchy is required.  

In general, it should not be necessary for a data provider to recreate hierarchical RDF relationships which have already been expressed by a centralized service.  For that reason, this guide does not describe best-practices for expressing such relationships in RDF.  Nevertheless, there are several reasons why it may be convenient for a data provider to expose literal values from existing text-based data: 
- the provider may be unable or unwilling to discover and link to a URI for the lowest level of the hierarchy, yet wish to facilitate future discovery of such URIs through string matching by applications or aggregators.  
- the provider may want to facilitate simple string-based queries (e.g. SPARQL) at any level of the hierarchy.
- the provider may wish to make it easier for consuming applications to create human-friendly representations of the data in which presenting the string hierarchy would be meaningful.

===2.7.2 Literal convenience terms versus a single object property reference===

There are several groups of convenience terms in the dwc: namespace which may be used to provide literal values for the purposes listed above (Section 4.6).  In the case of each of these groups, it is not expected that a provider will link to URI references for each level in the hierarchy.  Therefore, dwcuri: analogues are not defined for those convenience terms from the dwc: namespace.  Rather, for each category of convenience terms, there is a single dwcuri: namespace term (having no analogue in the dwc: namespace; Section 4.7) which can be used to link to the lowest available level in the hierarchy with the understanding that the RDF of the object resource will provide links to other URIs for higher levels of the hierarchy.  Such dwcuri: terms can refer to any level in the hierarchy if there is uncertainty about the identity of lower levels, or if lower levels do not exist. 

Table 6
||Category of convenience term||object property||Category of object resource||rdf:type of example resource||
||ownership of collection item (Section 2.7.3)||dwcuri:inCollection||collection||col:Collection||
||description of a taxonomic entity (Section 2.7.4)||dwcuri:toTaxonConcept||taxon concept; taxon name use||not specified||
||names of geographic subdivisions (Section 2.7.5)||dwcuri:inDescribedPlace||geographic place||gn:Feature||
||chronostratographic (geological timescale) description (Section 2.7.6)||dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra||geochronological time period||gsml:GeochronologicEra||


===2.7.3 Ownership of a collection item===

Historically, the set of values for dwc:institutionCode, dwc:collectionCode, and dwc:catalogNumber (a “Darwin Core triplet”) has been used to identify a collection item and to indicate the owning institution and collection within that institution as shown in Table 7.  

Table 7
||dwc:basisOfRecord||dwc:institutionCode||dwc:collectionCode||dwc:catalogNumber||dwc:collectionID||
||"PreservedSpecimen"||"MVZ"||"Mamm"||"115956"||"urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:34904"||

In RDF, unique identification of collection items is done through the URI which acts as a globally unique identifier for that item.  The Darwin Core triplet properties may still be provided as literal values, but ownership/control of the collection item should be indicated using dwcuri:inCollection with an HTTP URI as the URI-reference object.  For physical specimens, the recommended best practice is to use a collection URI from a collections registry such as an HTTP-proxied LSID from the Biodiversity Collections Index Registry of Biological Repositories http://www.biodiversitycollectionsindex.org/(http://www.biorepositories.org/).  Example 24 illustrates this for the data from Table 7.

Example 24:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:115956">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/dwctype/PreservedSpecimen"/>
     <dwc:institutionCode>MVZ</dwc:institutionCode>
     <dwc:collectionCode>Mamm</dwc:collectionCode>
     <dwc:catalogNumber>115956</dwc:catalogNumber>
     <dwcuri:inCollection rdf:resource="http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:34904"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://arctos.database.museum/guid/MVZ:Mamm:115956>
     a dwctype:PreservedSpecimen;
     dwc:collectionCode "Mamm";
     dwc:institutionCode "MVZ";
     dwc:catalogNumber "115956";
     dwcuri:inCollection <http://biocol.org/urn:lsid:biocol.org:col:34904>.
}}}
===2.7.4 Description of a taxonomic entity===

The consensus embodied in the TDWG Taxon Concept Transfer Schema (TCS) standard [http://www.tdwg.org/standards/117/ TCS-STANDARD] is that identification instances refer to taxon concept instances.  Therefore it would be a best practice to describe taxonomic entities in RDF as taxon concepts sensu TCS.  However, the general Darwin Core vocabulary does not contain sufficient terms to serve as object properties describing the components of a taxon concept and to describe the relationships between one taxon concept and another.  Therefore it is considered out of the scope of this document to specify how taxon concepts should be rendered as RDF.  Nevertheless, Darwin Core does define many convenience terms listed under the dwc:Taxon class which can be used as properties of dwc:Identification instances (Table 4.6).  

It might be argued that these convenience terms would more appropriately be properties of a dwctype:Taxon instance.  However, the definition of “taxon” in Darwin Core is vague and terms in the dwc:Taxon category are a mixture of properties that might describe names and concepts.  Therefore this document establishes the convention that convenience terms for taxonomic entities should be properties of dwc:Identification.  The task of defining a class for taxon concepts must be an effort outside of Darwin Core.  This guide does establish the object property dwcuri:toTaxonConcept  for use in relating a Darwin Core identification instance to a taxon concept as defined elsewhere.  

Consider the following example where Takuma Yun identified a spider to the species Hersilia yaeyamaensis using information in Tanikawa (1999).  The data about this identification was listed in a database as shown in Table 8.

Table 8
||dwc:identificationID||dwc:identifiedBy||dwc:order||dwc:family||dwc:genus||dwc:specificEpithet||dwc:nameAccordingToID||
||"75C9EA16-72B1-44C9-AD40-3C3A41323A09"||"Takuma Yun"||"Araneae"||"Hersiliidae"||"Hersilia"||"yaeyamaensis"||"75C9EA16-72B1-44C9-AD40-3C3D41323AB9"||

In this example, a best practice would be to link the identification instance to a taxon concept instance of Hersilia yaeyamaensis sec. Tanikawa 1999 using the object property dwcuri:toTaxonConcept as shown in Example 22.  However, the data provider may be uninterested, or unable to mint or discover a taxon concept instance to which the identification instance can be linked.  The provider may simply wish to make it easier to discover the identification instance and be unconcerned about the taxonomic relationships that might be asserted for concepts that may be defined for the listed name components.  In that case the provider can use the following RDF:

Example 25:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://museum.or.jp/9AC9BD26-8B41-458A-AA35-503A4527D009">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/Identification"/>
     <dwc:identifiedBy>Takuma Yun</dwc:identifiedBy>
     <dwc:order>Araneae</dwc:order>
     <dwc:family>Hersiliidae</dwc:family>
     <dwc:genus>Hersilia</dwc:genus>
     <dwc:specificEpithet>yaeyamaensis</dwc:specificEpithet>
     <dwc:nameAccordingTo>Tanikawa 1999</dwc:nameAccordingTo>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle:
{{{
<http://museum.or.jp/9AC9BD26-8B41-458A-AA35-503A4527D009>
     a dwc:Identification;
     dwc:identifiedBy "Takuma Yun";
     dwc:order "Araneae";
     dwc:family "Hersiliidae";
     dwc:genus "Hersilia";
     dwc:specificEpithet "yaeyamaensis";
     dwc:nameAccordingTo "Tanikawa 1999".
}}}
In the example, providing the triple
{{{
<http://museum.or.jp/9AC9BD26-8B41-458A-AA35-503A4527D009> dwc:order  “Araneae”
}}}
should not be taken to imply that Takuma Yun asserted that the spider he identified was classified within the order Araneae, nor should the RDF be assumed to imply that Takuma Yun asserted that Aranaeae is the name of a parent taxon of the genus Hersilia.  Those sorts of assertions would need to be made using more complex RDF and a more expressive vocabulary outside of Darwin Core.  The RDF simply makes it easier for users who are looking for spider identifications to search for them by looking for identifications having dwc:order of “Araneae”, dcw:genus of “Hersilia”, and a specific epithet of “yaeyamaensis”.  If it can be determined (perhaps at a later time) that the taxon concept described by the convenience terms corresponds to a particular URI-identified instance, the identification instance can be linked to it using an object property, e.g.
{{{
<http://muse.or.jp/9AC9BD26-8B41-458A-AA35-503A4527D009> dwcuri:toTaxonConcept <http://zoobank.org/75C9EA16-72B1-44C9-AD40-3C3D41323AB9>
}}}
===2.7.5 Names of geographic subdivisions===

The data from Table 5 can be expressed as shown in Example 26.  In the example, the term dwcuri:inDescribedPlace is used as an object property to link the dcterms:Location instance to a URI for the lowest known geographic subdivision which applies to the locality.  dwc:locality could also be used to provide a string literal description of the specific description of the place.

Example 26:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/baskauf/00001#loc">
     <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://purl.org/dc/terms/Location"/>
     <dwc:decimalLatitude>36.4024</dwc:decimalLatitude>
     <dwc:decimalLongitude>-87.02219</dwc:decimalLongitude>
     <dwc:geodeticDatum>EPSG:4326</dwc:geodeticDatum>
     <dwc:continent>North America</dwc:continent>
     <dwc:country>United States</dwc:country>
     <dwc:stateProvince>Tennessee</dwc:stateProvince>
     <dwc:county>Robertson</dwc:county>
     <dwcuri:inDescribedPlace rdf:resource="http://sws.geonames.org/4653638/"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/baskauf/00001#loc>
     a dcterms:Location;
     dwc:decimalLatitude "36.4024";
     dwc:decimalLongitude "-87.02219";
     dwc:geodeticDatum "EPSG:4326";
     dwc:continent "North America";
     dwc:country "United States";
     dwc:stateProvince "Tennessee";
     dwc:county "Robertson";
     dwcuri:inDescribedPlace <http://sws.geonames.org/4653638/>.
}}}
Because generic RDF places no restrictions on repeating properties, a dcterms:Location instance could have multiple dwcuri:inDescribedPlace properties if the location is included within several described geographic subdivisions.  For example, a particular location could be included within http://sws.geonames.org/4626068/ (The Great Smoky Mountains National Park which straddles two states) and http://sws.geonames.org/4656568/ (Sevier County, Tennessee, US, which is the lowest level political subdivision).  

===2.7.6 Chronostratographic (geological timescale) descriptors===

The following example is taken from [http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2011.0228 http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsbl.2011.0228], which involves the geological context of a fossil serving as a holotype for a species description.  In this example (Table 9), there is a single value given for the Epoch (Middle Jurassic), so the values for each of the earliest.../latest... stratigraphic timescale term pairs are the same.  



Table 9
||dwc:formation||dwc:earliestEonOrLowestEonothem dwc:latestEonOrHighestEonothem||dwc:earliestEraOrLowestErathem dwc:latestEraOrHighestErathem||dwc:earliestPeriodOrLowestSystem dwc:latestPeriodOrHighestSystem||dwc:earliestEpochOrLowestSeries dwc:latestEpochOrHighestSeries||
||"Jiu-longshan"||"Phanerozoic"||"Mesozoic"||"Jurassic"||"Middle"||

Example 27 shows how this can be rendered as RDF using the Darwin Core stratigraphic timescale terms as convenience terms.

Example 27:
RDF/XML
{{{
<rdf:Description rdf:about="http://paleo.cnu.edu.cn/ara/nn2010008#context">
    <rdf:type rdf:resource="http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/GeologicalContext"/>
    <dwc:formation>Jiu-longshan</dwc:formation>
    <dwc:earliestEonOrLowestEonothem>Phanerozoic</dwc:earliestEonOrLowestEonothem>
    <dwc:latestEonOrHighestEonothem>Phanerozoic</dwc:latestEonOrHighestEonothem>
    <dwc:earliestEraOrLowestErathem>Mesozoic</dwc:earliestEraOrLowestErathem>
    <dwc:latestEraOrHighestErathem>Mesozoic</dwc:latestEraOrHighestErathem>
    <dwc:earliestPeriodOrLowestSystem>Jurassic</dwc:earliestPeriodOrLowestSystem>
    <dwc:latestPeriodOrHighestSystem>Jurassic</dwc:latestPeriodOrHighestSystem>
    <dwc:earliestEpochOrLowestSeries>Middle</dwc:earliestEpochOrLowestSeries>
    <dwc:latestEpochOrHighestSeries>Middle</dwc:latestEpochOrHighestSeries>
    <dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra rdf:resource="http://resource.geosciml.org/classifier/ics/ischart/MiddleJurassic"/>
    <dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra rdf:resource="http://resource.geosciml.org/classifier/ics/ischart/MiddleJurassic"/>
</rdf:Description>
}}}
Turtle
{{{
<http://paleo.cnu.edu.cn/ara/nn2010008#context>
     a dwc:GeologicalContext;
     dwc:formation "Jiu-longshan";
     dwc:earliestEonOrLowestEonothem "Phanerozoic";
     dwc:latestEonOrHighestEonothem "Phanerozoic";
     dwc:earliestEraOrLowestErathem "Mesozoic";
     dwc:latestEraOrHighestErathem "Mesozoic";
     dwc:earliestPeriodOrLowestSystem "Jurassic";
     dwc:latestPeriodOrHighestSystem "Jurassic";
     dwc:earliestEpochOrLowestSeries "Middle";
     dwc:latestEpochOrHighestSeries "Middle";
     dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra <http://resource.geosciml.org/classifier/ics/ischart/MiddleJurassic>;
     dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra <http://resource.geosciml.org/classifier/ics/ischart/MiddleJurassic>.
}}}
In this example, the object properties dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra and dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra link to a URI that identifies an instance of the gsml:GeochronologicEra class which uses SKOS to relate the Middle Jurassic epoch to higher levels in the geochronological hierarchy.

===2.7.7 Lithostratigraphy descriptors===

Since lithostratigraphic units are hierarchical, the pattern followed with the other hierarchical convenience terms applies to the Darwin Core lithostratigraphic terms categorized under the dwc:GeologicalContext class (dwc:group, dwc:formation, dwc:member, and dwc:bed).  The object property dwcuri:fromLithostratigraphicUnit can be used to link the URI for a lithostratigraphic unit at the lowest appropriate level.  

=3. Term reference=

This section organizes terms from Darwin Core and other key vocabularies according to their use in RDF.  If the use of a term has additional restrictions or implications (e.g. domain and range assertions), they are noted.  Recommended formats and values are given when appropriate.

==3.1 Non-Darwin Core terms needed to express fundamental properties in RDF==

||term||Notes||
||rdf:type||Used to indicate the class of which the resource is an instance.  It is considered a best practice to type resources using rdf:type, whereas type declarations using dcterms:type and dwc:basisOfRecord are optional.  See Section 2.3.1.5 for recommended classes to be used with biodiversity resources.||
||dcterms:identifier||Used to relate string literal identifiers to the subject resource.  This can include string representations of URIs if they are considered the identifier for the resource.||

==3.2 Imported Dublin Core terms for which only literal objects are appropriate==


||term||domain||range||
||dcterms:modified||---||rdfs:Literal1||
||dcterms:bibliographicCitation||dcterms:BibliographicResource||rdfs:Literal||

1 Recommended format is ISO 8601:2004(E).  See notes on date terms in Section 3.4 for further information.

==3.3 Imported Dublin Core terms that have non-literal objects and corresponding terms that have literal objects==

||Term intended for use in RDF with non-literal objects2||range||recommended values||Term intended for use in RDF with literal objects||
||dcterms:language||dcterms:LinguisticSystem||MARC language URI http://id.loc.gov/vocabulary/languages.html||dc:language||
||dcterms:rights3||dcterms:RightsStatement||A custom RDF rights statement can be created using the Creative Commons Rights Expression Language http://creativecommons.org/ns with a minted URI or blank node representing the object of dcterms:rights .||dc:rights||
||dcterms:type||rdfs:Class||DCMI Type Vocabulary http://dublincore.org/documents/dcmi-terms/#H7||dc:type||
||dcterms:rightsHolder||dcterms:Agent||URI for the agent owning or managing the rights.||xmpRights:Owner4||
||dcterms:accessRights||dcterms:RightsStatement||A custom RDF rights statement could be created describing who can access the resource or an indication of its security status.  ||No literal object analogue exists for this term.  The string value can be expressed as a property of a blank node.5||
||dcterms:references||---||URI for a publication (preferably an HTTP-proxied DOI) related to the subject resource.||Use dwc:identificationReferences for a reference consulted in making an taxonomic identification and dwc:associatedReferences for references related to occurrences.||

2 None of these dcterms: namespace terms have domain declarations.

3 See the ancillary document “Expressing License Properties as RDF” for information about linking a creative work to its license.

4 DCMI does not provide a literal object analogue of dcterms:rightsHolder.  Audubon Core recommends xmpRights:Owner for literals.  However, since xmpRights:Owner is defined as “a list of legal owners of the resource”  [http://www.adobe.com/content/dam/Adobe/en/devnet/xmp/pdfs/XMPSpecificationPart1.pdf XMP-SPECIFICATION], it can only be used to specify the rights owner, not an agent managing the rights.  

5 See the [http://wiki.dublincore.org/index.php/User_Guide/Publishing_Metadata#dcterms:accessRights DCMI-ACCESS-RIGHTS] guidelines for an example.

==3.4 Terms defined by Darwin Core that are expected to be used only with literal values==

||Darwin Core term||Notes on  expressing as RDF||
||dwc:eventDate dwc:georeferencedDate dwc:dateIdentified dwc:measurementDeterminedDate dwc:relationshipEstablishedDate||These date terms have range rdfs:Literal 6. Best practice as specified in the term definition recommends that they should be formatted according to ISO 8601:2004(E).  There is no defined XML Schema datatype that corresponds exactly to ISO 8601:2004(E), therefore the entire set of possible values cannot be specified using an rdf:datatype attribute.  The XML Schema dateTime datatype (xsd:dateTime) which is effectively a subset of ISO 8601:2004(E), may be used as an rdf:datatype attribute.  However, xsd:dateTime requires the complete series of year, month, day, hour, second (e.g. 002-10-10T12:00:00) and does not permit listing only part of this hierarchy (e.g. only the year) as is allowed in ISO 8601:2004(E).||
||dwc:eventTime||It is recommended that the format described by ISO 8601:2004(E) be used.  As with the date terms, there is no XML Schema datatype that includes all of the possible values allowed in ISO 8601:2004(E), so there is no generic rdf:datatype attribute that would apply to all possible instances.  The XML Schema time datatype (xsd:time) which is effectively a subset of ISO 8601:2004(E) may be used as an rdf:datatype attribute although it is limited to values that include hours, minutes, and seconds (e.g. 13:07:56-05:00).||
||dwc:individualCount dwc:decimalLatitude dwc:decimalLongitude dwc:coordinatePrecision dwc:pointRadiusSpatialFit dwc:coordinateUncertaintyInMeters dwc:minimumElevationInMeters dwc:maximumElevationInMeters dwc:minimumDepthInMeters dwc:maximumDepthInMeters dwc:minimumDistanceAboveSurfaceInMeters dwc:maximumDistanceAboveSurfaceInMeters dwc:startDayOfYear dwc:endDayOfYear dwc:year dwc:month dwc:day dwc:footprintSpatialFit||These terms are expected to have literal values which are numeric.  Therefore, an rdf:datatype attribute describing the form of the number may be appropriate.||
||dwc:occurrenceRemarks dwc:eventRemarks dwc:locationRemarks dwc:georeferenceRemarks dwc:identificationRemarks dwc:taxonRemarks dwc:measurementRemarks dwc:relationshipRemarks||Because these are remarks, they are expected to have literal values.  An xml:lang attribute would be appropriate.||
||dwc:catalogNumber dwc:samplingEffort dwc:verbatimEventDate dwc:verbatimLocality dwc:verbatimElevation dwc:verbatimCoordinates dwc:verbatimLatitude dwc:verbatimLongitude dwc:verbatimDepth dwc:verbatumTaxonRank||Based on their term definitions, these terms are expected to have untyped literal values||
||dwc:basisOfRecord||Use only with literal value strings from the Darwin Core Type Vocabulary.  Use rdf:type to refer to URIs that describe the type of the resource.||

6 No Darwin Core terms defined in the Darwin Core normative RDF (as opposed to those imported from Dublin Core) have domain or range declarations as a part of their definitions.  However, the three five terms in the dwc: namespace listed in the table above are defined to be rdfs:subPropertyOf of dcterms:date, which has the range rdfs:Literal.  Therefore they have the range rdfs:Literal through inheritance. 

==3.5 Darwin Core convenience terms that are expected to be used only with literal values ==

See section 2.7 for more information on "convenience" terms.

||Darwin Core term||Notes||
||dwc:collectionCode dwc:institutionCode dwc:ownerInstitutionCode||The subject resource can be any resource that is part of a collection.  As an alternative, use the object property dwcuri:inCollection to link the subject resource to a URI for the collection containing the institution that owns or controls the resource.  ||
||dwc:kingdom dwc:phylum dwc:class dwc:order dwc:family dwc:genus dwc:subgenus dwc:specificEpithet dwc:infraspecificEpithet dwc:higherClassification dwc:vernacularName dwc:nameAccordingTo dwc:scientificName dwc:taxonRank dwc:scientificNameAuthorship dwc:nomenclaturalStatus dwc:namePublishedIn dwc:namePublishedInYear dwc:nomenclaturalCode dwc:originalNameUsage dwc:taxonomicStatus dwc:parentNameUsage dwc:acceptedNameUsage||The subject resource should be a dwc:Identification instance.  See section 2.7.4 why it not recommended to use these as properties of dwctype:Taxon or dwc:Taxon instances.  As an alternative, use the object property dwcuri:toTaxonConcept to link the subject dwc:Identification instance to a taxonomic entity such as a taxon concept or taxon name use.  It is likely that these taxonomic entities will have a complex structure which differentiates among name entities, name strings, application of a name to a concept, which expresses parent/child and set relationships among entities, and which tracks provenance information about the names, references, and concepts.  The flat nature of text-based Darwin Core cannot represent such a complex structure and it is beyond the scope of this guide to describe them.||
||dwc:higherGeography dwc:continent dwc:waterBody dwc:islandGroup dwc:island dwc:countryCode dwc:country dwc:stateProvince dwc:county dwc:municipality dwc:locality||The subject resource should be a dcterms:Location instance.  As an alternative, use the object property dwcuri:inDescribedPlace to link the subject resource to a standardized place described as part of a hierarchy. See section 2.7.5 for details.   It is likely that providers will want to provide a text value for dwc:locality even if dwcuri:inDescribedPlace is used to replace the other hierarchical convenience terms in this category.  This is because it is unlikely that a place description at this most specific level (e.g. “15 km N of Essen”) would be represented by a standardized URI-identified place instance.  There is no dwcuri: analogue of dwc:locality because if a URI-identified place were available to represent the locality, the term dwcuri:inDescribedPlace would be used to link to it.||
||dwc:earliestEonOrLowestEonothem dwc:latestEonOrHighestEonothem dwc:earliestEraOrLowestErathem dwc:latestEraOrHighestErathem dwc:earliestPeriodOrLowestSystem dwc:latestPeriodOrHighestSystem dwc:earliestEpochOrLowestSeries dwc:latestEpochOrHighestSeries dwc:earliestAgeOrLowestStage dwc:latestAgeOrHighestStage||The subject resource should be a dwc:GeologicalContext instance.  As an alternative, use the object properties dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra and dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra as described in section 3.6.  See section 2.7.6 for details.||
||dwc:lithostratigraphicTerms dwc:group dwc:formation dwc:member dwc:bed||The subject resource should be a dwc:GeologicalContext instance.  As an alternative, use the object property dwcuri:fromLithostratigraphicUnit to link the subject resource to the lowest appropriate unit of a lithostratigraphic hierarchy.||

==3.6 dwcuri: terms having local names that don’t correspond to terms in the dwc: Darwin Core namespace==

||Darwin Core term||Notes||
||dwcuri:inCollection||Use to link any subject resource that is part of a collection to the collection containing the resource.  institution that owns or controls the resource.  Recommended best practice is to use URIs from Registry of Biological Repositories (http://www.biorepositories.org/). See section 2.7.3 for details.||
||dwcuri:toTaxonConcept||Use to link a dwc:Identification instance subject to a taxonomic entity such as a taxon concept or taxon name use.   See section 2.7.4 for details.||
||dwcuri:inDescribedPlace||Use to link a dcterms:Location instance subject to the lowest level standardized hierarchically-described resource.  It is expected that such resources will be linked to higher levels in the hierarchy by the organization minting the URI.  Recommended best practice is to use URIs from the GeoNames geographical database (http://www.geonames.org/ ).  See section 2.7.5 for details.||
||dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra||Use to link a dwc:GeologicalContext instance to chronostratigraphic time periods at the lowest possible level in a standardized hierarchy.  Use dwcuri:earliestGeochronologicalEra to point to the earliest possible geological time period from which the cataloged item was collected and the object property dwcuri:latestGeochronologicalEra to point to the latest possible geological time period from which the cataloged item was collected.  The organization minting the URI should link those time periods to higher levels in the hierarchy.  Recommended best practice is to use URIs defined by the International Commission on Stratigraphy (http://www.stratigraphy.org/ ) in the http://resource.geosciml.org/vocabulary/timescale/isc-2012.rdf ontology.  See section 2.7.6 for details.||
||dwcuri:fromLithostratigraphicUnit||Use to link a dwc:GeologicalContext instance to a URI-identified lithostratigraphic unit at the lowest possible level in a hierarchy.  It is expected that such resources will be linked to higher levels in the hierarchy by the organization minting the URI.||
||dwcuri:inDataset||This object property is provided to link a subject dataset record to the dataset which contains it.  A string literal name of the dataset can be provided using the term dwc:datasetName.||

==3.7 dwc: namespace terms which have analogues in the dwcuri: namespace==

||Darwin Core term having a dwcuri: analogue with the same local name||Notes on the dwcuri: analogues||
||dwc:recordedBy dwc:identifiedBy dwc:georeferencedBy||The object is an agent; use VIAF, e.g. <http://viaf.org/viaf/27063124> or well-known URI||
||dwc:locationAccordingTo||The object is an agent or publication.  Use a well-known URI when possible, such as VIAF or an HTTP-proxied DOI.||
||dwc:georeferenceProtocol dwc:georeferenceSources dwc:samplingProtocol||The object is a published or well-known reference; use a URI version (preferably HTTP proxied) of doi, isbn, issn, etc. if available.||
||dwc:sex dwc:lifeStage dwc:reproductiveCondition dwc:establishmentMeans dwc:behavior dwc:occurrenceStatus dwc:disposition dwc:verbatimCoordinateSystem dwc:verbatimSRS dwc:geodeticDatum dwc:georeferenceVerificationStatus dwc:footprintWKT dwc:footprintSRS dwc:lowestBiostratigraphicZone dwc:highestBiostratigraphicZone dwc:identificationVerificationStatus dwc:identificationQualifier dwc:preparations dwc:typeStatus||Recommended best practice is to use a controlled vocabulary if one is available.||
||dwc:informationWithheld dwc:dataGeneralizations dwc:habitat||If the object property (dwcuri: analogue) is used rather than the dwc: property, the object property should point to a stable resource which might be a controlled vocabulary or content-as-rdf instance.||
||dwc:fieldNumber dwc:fieldNotes||dwcuri:fieldNumber is an object property whose subject is a (possibly URI-identified) resource that is the field notes and whose object is a dcmitype:Event instance.  dwcuri:fieldNotes is an object property whose subject is a dcmitype:Event instance and whose object is a (possibly URI-identified) resource that is the field notes.||
||dwc:recordNumber||dwcuri:recordNumber is an object property whose subject is an occurrence and and whose object is a (possibly URI-identified) resource that is the field notes. ||


==3.8 Darwin Core terms whose function cannot be duplicated by a dwcuri: object property==

||Darwin Core term||Notes||
||dwc:relationshipOfResource dwc:relationshipAccordingTo||Use the well-known terms oa:motivatedBy and oa:annotatedBy See the informative ancillary web pages for examples.||
||dwc:measurementType dwc:measurementValue dwc:measurementAccuracy dwc:measurementUnit dwc:measurementDeterminedDate dwc:measurementDeterminedBy dwc:measurementMethod dwc:measurementRemarks||See the informative ancillary web pages for examples.||
||dwc:dynamicProperties||See the informative ancillary web pages for examples.||
||dwc:samplingEffort||See the informative ancillary web pages for examples.||
||dwc:otherCatalogNumbers||There is no simple mapping because of the kinds of identifiers people use and variety of relationships that there may be among identifiers. owl:sameAs may be used to associate other URI identifiers with the subject URI if this is appropriate.  For string values, use dwc:otherCatalogNumbers.||
||dwc:associatedMedia||The well-known term foaf:depiction can be used to link to an image. but there is currently no object property that can be used for any kind of media item.
dwc:associatedOccurrences, dwc:associatedSequences, dwc:associatedTaxa
There are no known consensus object properties to replace these terms.  Use object properties from other vocabularies or ontologies or consider if the Open Annotation model can be used in your circumstance (see the informative ancillary web pages for examples)||
||dwc:previousIdentifications||There is no consensus object property for associating identifications with resources of other classes.  From whatever scheme you have chosen to provide object properties, use same object property as used for the most recent identification but provide an earlier dwc:dateIdentified value.||