#summary Summary and links to a thread about the Open Annotation data model

= Summary and links to a thread about the Open Annotation data model, the Darwin Core ResourceRelationship terms, and the TDWG TaxonConcept ontology =


= Background =
On 2013-02-25 a thread began on the TDWG RDF Task group email list regarding the Open Annotation data model (http://www.openannotation.org/spec/core/) and the similarities between it and parts of TDWG vocabularies.  In particular, the text-based dwc:ResourceRelationship terms (http://rs.tdwg.org/dwc/terms/#relindex) and tc:hasRelationship term and its possible values from the TDWG TaxonConcept ontology (http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/TaxonConcept.rdf) use a similar approach to modeling the relationships between resources.  The diagrams and table at http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-rdf/wiki/OpenAnnotationAndTDWG compare the three sets of terms.  

= Some posts from the TDWG RDF email list related to this issue=

Steve Baskauf's initial post noting the similarities among the three vocabularies https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/eTATmyyE8a0/Jta39nkXyYgJ

Specific example laying out the difference between expressing a relationship between two taxa using a single triple vs. an expressing a relationship by creating a tc:hasRelationship instance linked to the two taxa.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/eTATmyyE8a0/NtT8vp27M6IJ

John Deck notes that BiSciCol is interested in expressing relationships using the OA core.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/eTATmyyE8a0/HTvfBlGSYuoJ

Steve Baskauf provides an example of how the OA terms could be used to represent a dwc:ResourcRelationship instance and asks whether it would be a valid use of the OA model. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/eTATmyyE8a0/4yZwR6UGlngJ

Bob Morris says he thinks it is not an abuse of OA and suggests a possible way to use SKOS terms to describe that the relationship is narrower than the oa:Motivation oa:linking .  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/eTATmyyE8a0/Et0SSxEc6NYJ

Éamonn Ó Tuama notes that the VoMaG (http://community.gbif.org/pg/groups/21382/vocabulary-management/) term wiki is set up for handling SKOS schemes. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/eTATmyyE8a0/ubWXVqgr59UJ

Steve Baskauf forwards a reply from Rob Sanderson, one of the OA editors, who says that although the OA is framed in terms of annotations of information resources, it is broad enough to include the sorts of non-information resources (specimens, taxa) that would be related by the dwc:ResourceRelationship class terms.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/sfOu-v_Y4GkJ

Paul Morris provides an alternative way to annotate a simple triple. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/ewJG0pu9V-UJ

Hilmar Lapp says that common sense says not to use oa:Annotation to say something that could just as well be said in a triple directly. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/sazAKg8t8JQJ

Steve Baskauf notes that the TDWG TaxonConcept ontology uses an annotation-like structure to document the relationship between tc:TaxonConcept instances and asks why. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/g_h7R4GrynoJ

Nico Franz comments that the TaxonConcept ontology needed to document person-specific assessments of relationships between concepts.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/-r-HMLMudMAJ

Bob Morris notes that OA provides a mechanism for documenting provenance. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/I6hPLPtn1qkJ

Steve Baskauf comments that the extent to which people are going to care about the provenance is going to depend somewhat on how taxon concepts are going to be managed (centralized vs. aggregation from many smaller sources).  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/cOdstpLHoYUJ

Rod Page thinks that documenting provenance is probably the reason for structuring the taxon relationships the way they are modeled in the TDWG TaxonConcept ontology.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/wPjVnNyxGiMJ

Éamonn Ó Tuama asks why reification is not adopted over special schemes for annotation/provenance.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/cWr7InFkzOEJ

Jessie Kennedy confirms that documenting provenance was a central reason for the structure of TCS and its RDF successor (the TDWG TaxonConcept ontology).  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/Z6p1Q02v-cQ/CTOhXDt3yRkJ
