#summary Summary and links to a thread related to TCS and Taxon Concepts

= Background =

On 2012-11-01 a thread began on the TDWG TAG email list regarding the Taxon Concept Transfer Schema (TCS).  The TCS is a TDWG Current (2005) Standard (http://www.tdwg.org/standards/117/ viewable as a pdf at http://bioimages.vanderbilt.edu/pages/TCS-Schema-UserGuide-v1.3.pdf ).  The TCS specifies the structure for XML documents to be used for the transfer of defined concepts.  It does not provide any guidance about how to represent taxon concepts in RDF.  However, the Taxon Concept Ontology component of the TDWG Ontology (http://rs.tdwg.org/ontology/voc/TaxonConcept viewable in a browser at http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/TaxonConcept.owl ) is based on TCS and provides a means to express TCS as RDF.

= TDWG TAG mailing list thread posts relevant to RDF and broad issues that would impact RDF=

Question posed by Tony Rees asking whether any users have real-world experience using TCS 
http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002513.html

Rod Page notes that some providers use vocabularies for taxonomic names, others use vocabularies for taxonomic concepts, and others such as Darwin Core blur the distinction.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002514.html

Greg Whitbread notes that the Atlas of Living Australia, National Species List (ANA-NSL) uses the TDWG Ontology (specifically the Taxon Concept part) as a basis for LSID, RDF, and JSON services. http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002515.html

Steve Baskauf notes that although the TDWG Ontology has an "unfinished" feel, the Taxon Concept part of it appears to be complete and usable.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002516.html

Rich Pyle asks for feedback from users of TCS, the TDWG Taxon Concept Ontology, and the Darwin Core dwc:Taxon class terms.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002517.html

Kevin Richards reports use of the Taxon Concept Ontology in LSID resolvers that resolve names.  (Actually some of these use the Taxon Name Ontology part of the TDWG ontology, which is actually a separate component at http://rs.tdwg.org/ontology/voc/TaxonName viewable in a browser at http://code.google.com/p/tdwg-ontology/source/browse/trunk/ontology/voc/TaxonName.owl )

Nico Franz reports on current NSF projects dealing explicitly with taxon concept representation and integration.  He points out the weakness of TCS in defining relationships between concepts.  (actually a posting to a cross-post on the TDWG RDF email list) https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/ILZ4R07mfhw/XT7fy15kQ4wJ

Jessie Kennedy (author of TCS) provides a short history of TCS at http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002524.html

Rich Pyle enumerates things that he things TCS "got right" and describes the approach involving "atomized" taxon name usage (TNU) instances.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002526.html

Tony Rees discusses the advantages associated with the ability to query multiple taxonomic databases.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002528.html

Rod Page discusses the pros and cons of depending on the GBIF classification  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002529.html

Nico Franz describes three expected actions of concepts.  He says tools are needed to import existing concept hierarchies. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/iJgh5zI-bCIJ

Rich Pyle responds to Nico's post (but I don't think it went out on the list - it's included in Nico's subsequent response) by describing a Taxon Name Usage Instance (TNU).  A TNU is a snapshot in time and can include Code-governed Nomenclatural Acts (small subset) as well as things as vague as a newspaper reference or label annotation.  He says it would be nice to have a registry of TNUs that represent Taxon Concepts (TNUs that are defined in referenceable literature?) as well a mechanism for asserting how concepts map to each other.  

Nico responds (quoting the above email) describing how he thinks his description of taxon concepts maps to Rich's.  He says describes a situation where a TNU can "rise" to become a taxon concept via a mapping.  Thus it may be premature to define things to soon or too narrowly.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/OV7TB8ctTs8J

Rod Page created a graphical representation of the model that underlies Zoobank. https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/kBsh0oRIF9YJ blog post at http://iphylo.blogspot.co.uk/2012/11/zoobank-data-model.html

Nico Franz states that he believes that the set-theory relationships can be worked out through an SQL database and do not require an ontology-like environment.  He notes the desirability of a taxonomy submission tool with a pleasant front-end.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/I1ldlSOqjDYJ

Steve Baskauf expresses the opinion that what Rich wants to do with TNUs could and probably should be done using the TDWG Taxon Concept ontology.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/41J-e0lRJIQJ and followup https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/4KBXOW1NzwwJ

Rich Pyle responds to Rod's blog post and discusses features of the GNUB data model.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002541.html

David Remsen makes a number of points about the use of the term "taxon concept".  People don't understand it.  He objects to using sensu for things that don't resolve to anything that defines a taxon.  A taxonomic concept must provide evidence of its circumscription.  Ideally that would include machine-comparable information, but specimens, original descriptions, morphological characters, geographic distributions, and synonymy are means of circumscription.  http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002542.html

Rich Pyle responds to Steve's email.  He notes that a TNU must have documentation.  He notes that it may be possible to infer the concept a person had in mind when assigning a name in a specimen determination, but most of the time the TNU will probably not be matched with a clear concept.  He endorses the idea of using TCS 1.2 as the basis for a more advanced version. http://lists.tdwg.org/pipermail/tdwg-tag/2012-November/002543.html

Steve Baskauf comments about the documentation of the TDWG Taxon Concept ontology and TCS.  He proposes using tc:hasName and tc:accordingTo as properties which define tc:Taxon (or tc:TaxonConcept) instances.  He provides a concrete example using a real name URI from uBio and a real reference URI which is an HTTP-proxied DOI.  He shows how the RDF graph would be represented graphically and marked up in RDF/XML and RDF/turtle.  He discusses how differing views on taxon concepts and TNUs would be handled under this model. He asserts that Darwin Core is not up to handling complex non-"flat" situations like this.  He proposes that the TDWG Taxon Concept and Taxon Name ontology terms be used instead of Darwin Core when represented as RDF.  He requests feedback on this proposal.  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/OA8OalRFAHkJ

Nico Franz replies that he thinks this is a good path to take and ... "To the extent that communication succeeds relevantly (like for instance we can identify and protect a "natural cluster" of things out there to a satisfactory degree), we can call it "real" or "construct".. - the success remains and our model needs to be able to accommodate successes that inherently involve semantic vagueness. ..."  https://groups.google.com/d/msg/tdwg-rdf/E77vdpH4tj0/D53JBKtxQGUJ


= For further (painful) reading =

A long summary of a variety of posts from the tdwg-content email list between 2009-10 and 2011-02 which include some on the topic of Taxon Concepts and RDF representations.  A text search on the page for "Taxon Concept" will jump you to some entry points. http://code.google.com/p/darwin-sw/wiki/TdwgContentEmailSummary

An attempt to summarize Taxon Concept issues in the context of the development of Darwin-SW is at http://code.google.com/p/darwin-sw/wiki/ClassTaxon .  You are on your own to separate the objective background material from the material shamelessly promoting the Darwin-SW Ontology.  