#summary Links to talks in the Semantics of Biodiversity Symposium series

==Primer on Semantic Technologies==
29 October 2013

04:00 PM - 05:00 PM 448. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Baskauf_RdfPrimer.pdf PRIMER ON SEMANTIC TECHNOLOGIES]. Steve Baskauf, John
Deck, Mark Schildhauer

==Technologies, Reasoning & Annotation==
30 October 2013

Organizers: Benjamin Adams, John Deck, Mark Schildhauer

02:32 PM - 02:41 PM 493. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/baskauf_DwcRdfGuide.pdf AN RDF GUIDE FOR THE TDWG DARWIN CORE STANDARD]. Steven Baskauf, John Wieczorek, John Deck, Campbell
Webb, Mark Schildhauer

02:41 PM - 02:50 PM 485. BUILDING A BIODIVERSITY INFORMATION NETWORK USING
PERSISTENT, RESOLVABLE IDENTIFIERS. John Deck, Robert
Guralnick, John Kunze

02:50 PM - 02:59 PM 477. SEMANTIC APPROACH FOR COLLECTION DATA VIA OPEN
DATA WEBS INSTEAD OF CLOSED SYSTEMS. Falko Glöckler,
Alexander Kroupa, Anton Güntsch, Gregor Hagedorn

02:59 PM - 03:08 PM 474. THE BISCICOL TRIPLIFIER: BRINGING LEGACY
BIODIVERSITY DATA TO THE SEMANTIC WEB. Brian Stucky,
Robert Guralnick, John Deck, Tom Conlin

03:08 PM - 03:17 PM 480. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Heidorn-Chong_SemanticKnowledgeStores4.pptx THE INGEST AND USES OF SPECIMEN LABEL DATA INTO SEMANTIC KNOWLEDGE STORES]. Bryan Heidorn, Steven Chong

03:17 PM - 03:26 PM 481. SEMANTECO ANNOTATOR FOR LINKED DATA GENERATION
AND GENERALIZED SEMANTIC MAPPING. Patrice Seyed, Katherine
Chastain, Brendan Ashby, Yue Liu, Timothy Lebo, Evan Patton,
Deborah McGuinness

03:35 PM - 03:44 PM 335. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Morris_SemanticMatchingInterestsAnnotations.pdf SEMANTIC MATCHING OF INTERESTS TO ANNOTATIONS WITH SPARQL QUERIES ON REASONED TRIPLES]. Paul J Morris, James Hanken, Maureen Kelly, David Lowery, Bertram Ludäscher, James A. Macklin, Robert A Morris, Tianhong Song

03:44 PM - 03:53 PM 486. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Laporte_facetedSearchSystem.pdf A FACETED SEARCH SYSTEM FOR FACILITATING THE UNDERSTANDING AND THE PREDICTION OF ECOSYSTEM CHANGES]. Marie-Angélique Laporte, Eric Garnier, Isabelle Mougenot

== Semantic Tools and Ontologies proposed new Interest Group==
30 October 2013

Organizers: Luca Matteis, Marie-Angelique Laporte, Elizabeth Armaud

[http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Matteis%26Laporte_DiscussionGroupForSemanticStandarsLOD.pptx Powerpoint with introduction and discussion points]


==Formal Models and Ontologies== 
1 November 2013

Organizers: John Deck, Nico Franz, Mark Schildhauer, Ramona L. Walls

09:02 AM - 09:11 AM 497. USING DARWIN CORE AS A MODEL: AN ONTOLOGICALLY
MINIMALIST APPROACH TO PUBLISHING OCCURRENCE DATA IN
RDF. Joel Sachs

09:11 AM - 09:20 AM 496. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Baskauf_Darwin-SW.pdf USING DARWIN-SW TO ANSWER QUESTIONS ABOUT BIODIVERSITY RESOURCES]. Steven Baskauf, Campbell Webb

09:20 AM - 09:33 AM 501. LINKING BIODIVERSITY DATA WITH THE BIOLOGICAL
COLLECTIONS ONTOLOGY. Ramona Walls, John Deck, Robert
Guralnick, John Wieczorek

09:33 AM - 09:39 AM 504. A NEW METADATA CHECKLIST FOR DESCRIBING SPECIES INVENTORY COMPLETENESS. Rob Guralnick, Ramona Walls,
Walter Jetz

09:39 AM - 09:52 AM 491. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Coetzer_SemanticMediation_FlowerVisiting.pptx IMPLEMENTING A SEMANTIC MEDIATOR TO INTEGRATE FLOWER-VISITING RECORDS FROM SOUTH AFRICAN NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUMS]. Willem Coetzer, Deshendran Moodley, Aurona Gerber

09:52 AM - 10:03 AM 471. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/FranzEtAl-EulerToolkitReconcilingMultipleTaxonomiesPerelleschus-TDWG2013.pptx A TOOLKIT FOR RECONCILING MULTIPLE TAXONOMIC PERSPECTIVES: EULER/X AND THE PERELLESCHUS USE CASE]. Nico Franz, Mingmin Chen, Shizhuo Yu, Shawn Bowers, Bertram Ludäscher

10:03 AM - 10:11 AM 472. [http://www.slideshare.net/taxonbytes/franz-et-al-using-asp-to-simulate-the-interplay-of-taxonomic-and-nomenclatural-change USING ANSWER SET PROGRAMMING TO SIMULATE THE INTERPLAY OF TAXONOMIC AND NOMENCLATURAL CHANGE] Nico Franz, Joohyung Lee, Chao Zhang

10:11 AM - 10:24 AM 411. TEXT MINING FOR BIODIVERSITY ONTOLOGIES. Mark
Schildhauer, Benjamin Adams

10:24 AM - 10:30 AM 503. ONTOLOGY EXTRACTION FROM UNSTRUCTURED TEXT IN
THE BIODIVERSITY DOMAIN. Daniele Cristina Palazzi Krempser,
Ana Maria Moura, Maria Luiza Machado Campos, Luiz Gadelha

==Interoperability with Genomic & Environmental Semantics==
1 November 2013

Organizers: John Deck, Robert P. Guralnick, Mark Schildhauer

11:02 AM - 11:11 AM 456. LINKING DATA FOR REAL: HOW AND WHY THE CURRENT
SITUATION STINKS BIG TIME. Rob Guralnick, Tom Conlin, Nico
Cellinese, John Deck

11:11 AM - 11:20 AM 465. THE EARTH MICROBIOME PROJECT: PLANETARY-SCALE
SYSTEMS ECOLOGY.. Sean Gibbons, Jack Gilbert, Rob Knight,
Janet Jansson, Jai Rideout, Antonio Gonzales, Emmanuel Prestat, J
Gregory Caporaso

11:20 AM - 11:29 AM 466. IDENTIFICATION OF ENVIRONMENT ONTOLOGY TERMS IN
TEXT AND ANNOTATION OF BIODIVERSITY (ENVIRONMENTSEOL)
AND GENOMICS (SEQENV) INFORMATION. Evangelos Pafilis,
Sune Frankild, Umer Ijaz, Lucia Fanini, Sarah Faulwetter, Christina
Pavloudi, Julia Schnetzer, Aikaterini Vasileiadou, Christos Arvanitidis,
Christopher Quince, Lars Juhl Jensen

11:29 AM - 11:36 AM 461. [http://www.slideshare.net/balhoff/semantic-tools-for-aggregation-of-morphological-characters-across-studies SEMANTIC TOOLS FOR AGGREGATION OF MORPHOLOGICAL CHARACTERS ACROSS STUDIES]. James
Balhoff, Alex Dececchi, Paula Mabee, Hilmar Lapp

Don't have talk title. Cyndi Parr

11:36 AM - 11:43 AM 462. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Wilson-Computable-Descriptions.pdf COLLABORATIVELY CREATING COMPUTABLE SPECIES DESCRIPTIONS]. Nathan Wilson

11:52 AM - 12:01 PM 464. PROTOTYPING A BOTANICAL KNOWLEDGE PORTAL. James
Macklin, Joel Sachs, Hong Cui, Heather Cole
23

12:01 PM - 12:10 PM 467. THE CROP ONTOLOGY: TOWARDS THE SEMANTIC
INTEGRATION OF OPEN PLANT TRAIT DATA. Elizabeth Arnaud,
Luca Matteis, Pierre-Yves Chibon, Milko Skofic, Pankaj Jaiswal, Laurel
Cooper, Rosemary Shrestha, Mark Wilkinson, Richard Bruskiewich,
Graham McLaren

12:10 PM - 12:19 PM 463. HIERARCHICAL SEARCH IN SEMANTECO SUPPORTING
VARIED ONTOLOGY DESIGN PATTERNS. Patrice Seyed, Evan
Patton, Deborah McGuinness

12:19 PM - 12:28 PM 459. [http://www.tdwg.org/fileadmin/2013conference/slides/Heimann_Subontologies.pdf USER-BASED SUB-ONTOLOGY EXTRACTION – A MEANS TO SUPPORT SEMANTIC ANNOTATION OF BIODIVERSITY DATA]. Dennis Heimann, Birgitta König-Ries

CHANGE. Nico Franz, Joohyung Lee
10:11 AM - 10:24 AM 411. TEXT MINING FOR BIODIVERSITY ONTOLOGIES. Mark
Schildhauer, Benjamin Adams

10:24 AM - 10:30 AM 503. ONTOLOGY EXTRACTION FROM UNSTRUCTURED TEXT IN
THE BIODIVERSITY DOMAIN. Daniele Cristina Palazzi Krempser,
Ana Maria Moura, Maria Luiza Machado Campos, Luiz Gadelha